This is after the Western Cape High Court yesterday ordered the Minister of Rural Development and Land Reform to formulate a plan to speed up the restitution process within three months. The slow pace of the government’s restitution process landed in court after the District Six Working Committee filed an application wanting the state to account for allegedly breaching its Constitutional obligation by not providing restitution to more than 1 000 District Six claimants. Advocate Geoff Budlender took on the case on behalf of the claimants, arguing before Judge Jody Kollapen, former head of the South African Human Rights Commission, that 20 years after the restitution process was started, 89% of District Six claimants, or 1 078 people, have still not received a home. Budlender argued that at the pace the government was working, it would take around 80 years to provide houses for the claimants, and by that time most of them would no longer be alive. The claimants set out to have the Minister of Rural Development and Land Reform construct a plan to deal with the process, which Judge Kollapen granted. The order states the plan needs to include a conceptual layout for the redevelopment of District Six; funding details and budgets; time frames for the plan’s implementation; and a methodology that will be applied in allocating residential units. The plan needed to be delivered to the court within three months, said Judge Kollapen. He didn’t make an order regarding costs, and reserved judgment on the claimants’ application, declaring that the minister, the Commission on Restitution of Land Rights and the government had violated their constitutional rights by failing to provide their restitution. Advocate Sean Rosenberg, for the State, admitted that they had not fulfilled their obligation to provide restitution, but denied they had breached their constitutional obligation. “The state recognises the delays to the restitution process. It also emphasises that this case has been unique in its scope and complexity,” Rosenberg said. Claimants were left ecstatic at the ruling, saying it gave them hope that they might soon get their houses in the area. District Six Working Committee chairperson Shahied Ajam, who is 60 years old, hailed the court finding and said he would be holding the government to account on the finding. “I was forcibly removed from District Six when I was 18, I need to heal. Today was a monumental day for us,” he said. District Six was declared a white area under the Group Areas Act on February 11, 1966 and by 1982 more than 60 000 people had been forcibly removed to barren outlying areas that are still known as the Cape Flats. The forced removals were repeated in suburbs throughout the city, peri-urban and rural areas in all towns. All people of colour were removed from upmarket areas and prime land, reserved for whites only and dumped on dustbowls of poverty. Among those removed from District Six were sisters Frieda and Fatima Voterson. Now 61 and 60 respectively, the Votersons said they felt a sense of relief. Frieda Voterson lives in Portlands, Mitchells Plain, and said the process to get to this point had been a long one. “I am glad the judge recognised us,” she said. Fatima Voterson cried during the court proceedings and said she felt restitution was finally within her reach. Cape Times