World Pancreatic Cancer Day, marked today, is an initiative of the World Pancreatic Cancer Coalition, which consists of more than 70 organisations from more than 30 countries. Only between 2% and 9% of people with pancreatic cancer live for a period of five years, and there is no standard screening test for the disease, which makes it vital for people to know about its symptoms and risks. About 367000 cases of pancreatic cancer were diagnosed globally in 2015, and it is estimated that about 480000 new cases will be diagnosed globally in 2020. More than 1250 people worldwide are diagnosed with pancreatic cancer daily, and an estimated 1180 die from the disease each day, according to the World Cancer Research Fund. The organisation said Hungary had the highest rate of pancreatic cancer in 2018. Singers Robbie Malinga and Aretha Franklin are among public figures who have died from this cancer. While early detection is critical to survival, most people are unaware of the common symptoms, and raising awareness of them could save lives. Global biopharmaceutical company Celgene, in conjunction with market research firm Ipsos Group, released the results of the Global Pancreatic Cancer Awareness Omnibus Survey of more than 7000 adults in the US and five European countries. The 2014 survey found 60% of people knew “almost nothing” about pancreatic cancer, which occurs when abnormal cells develop and grow out of control, causing tumours. The cause of the majority of pancreatic cancer cases is unknown, but there is evidence that age, smoking, being overweight, a family history of pancreatic cancer, pancreatitis, and diabetes might increase the risk of developing pancreatic cancer. Common symptoms include abdominal or mid-back pain, unexplained weight loss, jaundice, loss of appetite, indigestion, changes in stool, and new-onset diabetes. These symptoms are often vague and are generally attributed to other less serious and more common conditions initially. For more info about World Pancreatic Cancer Day and the coalition, visit www.worldpancreaticcancerday.org