The shark exclusion net is already being deployed at Fish Hoek beach from 9am to 5pm daily, weather permitting. The Fish Hoek exclusion net has proved to be an effective shark safety measure by creating a physical barrier preventing any sharks from entering the bathing area. The other nets will be deployed from December 12 to January 7. With the public expected to flock to the coastline over the festive season, the City reminded beachgoers to adhere to the warnings that will be issued by the shark spotters to ensure that everyone has a safe, enjoyable beach experience. Mayco member for Transport and Urban Development Felicity Purchase said most shark sightings were reported during mid-summer, as the presence of sharks is more prevalent along the False Bay coastline during warmer months. “Shark sightings typically start in late August and continue through to April. "The public can also report shark sightings to the shark spotters. While the shark spotters and the Fish Hoek exclusion net are important safety measures, I want to urge beachgoers to please be vigilant when going into the ocean. "White sharks are present in our ocean and, by going into the water, there is a small possibility of encountering one of these animals.” The Shark Spotters Information Centre at Surfers Corner in Muizenberg is open to the public from 8am until 6pm, seven days a week. The centre provides up-to-date information on sharks and marine ecology, basic first aid, general public assistance and help with emergencies, and storage of valuables and lost property. The public is encouraged to download the Shark Spotters mobile app to access the latest shark safety information, including what flag is flying at each beach, the latest shark sightings, net deployments, and much more. The app is available free of charge for Apple and Android devices and can be downloaded by searching for Shark Spotters on the app store. For more information on the latest shark sightings and research, visit www.sharkspotters.org.za or follow the Shark Spotters on Twitter (@SharkSpotters) and Facebook (www.facebook.com/SharkSpotters).