A group of community members in DA T-shirts protested outside as he made a brief appearance. He cannot be named to protect the identity of the teenager. The accused had been employed by the city until July this year, said spokesperson Luthando Tyalibongo. “We are extremely saddened to hear that a 13-year-old child was allegedly raped by a family member who should be her protector.” The accused has been a member of the DA since last year and worked for the city as a community liaison officer. His appearance comes as South Africans observe the 16 Days of Activism For No Violence Against Women and Children campaign. ANC ward councillor Khaya Yozi said he had been alerted to the alleged incident by concerned community members. He said the teen was five months pregnant, and members of the community were angry. Yozi said they wanted to see the law take its course. Cape DA metro regional chairperson Grant Twigg confirmed that the accused was a member of the party and said allegations that the DA would support his bid for bail were false. “We take any allegations regarding gender violence or rape very seriously. The leadership of the DA will gather the necessary information and will decide on appropriate steps moving forward.” He said the DA had pledged to not support him, and respected the criminal justice system. “All allegations of rape must be taken seriously and the NPA and law enforcement authorities must take this case seriously, especially while we mark 16 Days of Activism,” he said. Meanwhile, a 46-year-old Mitchells Plain man appeared at the Cape Town Magistrate’s Court for the alleged sexual assault of a 15-year-old family friend in Kensington. The Kensington Community Policing Forum said it had visited the young girl yesterday. Community policing forum spokesperson Cheslyn Steenberg said it was a trying time for the family. “As a CPF, we support the victim and her family. We have also pledged to help. We call upon the community of Kensington / Factreton to stand in solidarity with this family, but also in solidarity against any form of abuse. “Sixteen Days of Activism should not be a special date on our calendar, it should become a lifestyle.” Residents took matters into their own hands when they wanted to assault the man on Saturday. According to Ward 56 councillor Helen Jacobs, the man was bathing at a wendy house when he called the child to help him wash his back. Cape Times