Emergency medical rescue services have even warned shoppers to be patient and beware of possible stampedes during the sales, which have, over the past few years, gripped South Africa and other countries in November. Some retailers started early and shoppers took advantage. Garrith Jamieson, the spokesperson for Rescue Care, said they had noted the increased fanfare surrounding Black Friday specials, and that they would be beefing up their paramedics for any eventuality at shopping centres. “Given that shopping centres will probably be flooded with people seeking out festive season specials, we will deploy our staff and vehicles strategically to deal with any eventuality,” he said. Pick n Pay released its Black Friday catalogue yesterday, which will run until Sunday, while Food Lover’s Market is selling bulk specials such as three pineapples for R50, as well as three 1.5-litre juices for R50. Other retailers include Makro, Shoprite/Checkers, Mr Price, Superbalist, Takealot, Travelstart and Game. John Bradshaw, the head of marketing at Pick * Pay, said: “The excitement surrounding Black Friday continues to grow each year, and we’ve never seen so much enthusiasm about a promotion before. “We are ready to host our biggest Black Friday ever, and can’t wait to invite customers in-store and online from Friday. “Customers can expect discounts of up to 60% across many categories, including appliances, tech, liquor, food, toiletries, household products and clothing.” Yumna Joseph, 33, from Athlone, said: “I have already started shopping because I feel it’s worth it. Comforters are normally R250, but today I got them for R100. I didn’t get pamphlets for the food retailers yet, but I am definitely going tomorrow because there are always nice deals.” Bonteheuwel resident Lameez Jaftha, 31, said she was most excited about the price of takkies. Phumla Mpekula, 57, from Mfuleni, said: “I am not getting paid on Friday and I am glad. There is so much I want I would be splashing my money, then come January I’d be broke.” Brett Cameron of Old Mutual Rewards warned that while making the most of Black Friday specials could be a savvy way to save money, it was very important to stay focused on buying only what you really need and knowing what counts as a saving. Cape Times