The situation escalated when the 46-year-old man was released from police custody two days after the incident, without the residents being informed. This was because of a “lack of evidence”, said the police. The latest incident was last week and comes as South Africans prepare for the launch of 16 Days of Activism on Sunday until December 10. During this period, the country puts the spotlight on the gross violation of women and children’s rights. The other alleged incident where another child was molested took place in September. On Wednesday, Langa residents marched to the police station, demanding the release of three leaders arrested for chasing the man out of their community. The three, including the mother of one of the victims, were charged with housebreaking, trespassing and theft. The angry residents also called for the police not to turn a blind eye to the incident because the accused’s brother and a friend were police officers at the station. The residents were released and are expected to appear in court today. The aunt of the girl allegedly molested in September said the man who stayed a few doors away from them met the child going up the stairs and carried her to a nearby toilet. “We saw her running in the house crying, calling the man by his name and saying he kissed her, forced his tongue in her mouth and kept touching her private part. “The man got scared when the child started crying loudly and let her go. “When we confronted him he admitted what he did but said he was drunk and not aware of what he was doing. He vowed not to drink again and his wife also apologised. The following week he got drunk with his wife and were making silly statements about the incident which forced us to report the matter,” she said. The man was arrested on Sunday. While the girl’s family was waiting to go to Bishop Lavis court yesterday, they were surprised to see the man roaming in the corridor. “The child was taken to Karl Bremer Hospital and we were told there was not enough evidence. When we asked to be given a case number we were just ignored. We don’t have hope that he will be prosecuted because he has inside connections,” she said. On Saturday, the mother of the other 4-year-old received a call from her sister that she urgently needed to go home as her daughter had been raped. “When I arrived home, the man and his wife were in my home. When I asked for an explanation he admitted that he was drinking at a neighbour’s house when he saw the children and lured mine to the toilet with some biscuits. "He claimed he kissed her private parts, pulled down her pants and forced his penis in her private part once but when it didn’t penetrate, he stopped. The mother reported the incident the same day. On Monday, the man was released because there was not enough evidence. “This has affected my child badly. She doesn’t want to go to daycare, is reserved and always jumpy. Although the man moved from his house, he still stays in the same yard. My child can see him again and he can sexually assault another child. He must go, we don’t want him here. “My child’s confession and his confession is enough evidence, so I don’t understand what they mean when they say there is not enough evidence. “This law doesn’t protect our children but the offenders, who repeat the same thing,” she said. Police spokesperson Noloyiso Rwexana said: “Bishop Lavis FCS detectives investigated the case. It was taken to the senior prosecutor who indicated that there was not enough evidence to continue with the case. No witnesses could be located. The medical examination was negative. The child was further assisted by social workers.” Councillors Nomtha Dilima and Ncumisa Mahang said as mothers and women leaders they condemned the act in the strongest terms and asked how the accused was allowed to stay in the same yard as the victims. Ilitha Labantu spokesperson Siyabulela Monakali said: “These incidences are an indication of the state of violence against women and children in South Africa, as our children are not safe in society and in their homes.” Cape Times