They were all arrested after members of public order policing (POP) reacted to a tip-off. Police say they conducted an observation while church members transported the congregation’s cash on Sunday. Spokesperson Andrè Traut said: “Upon the arrival of the suspects, they spotted the police and opened fire at the officers. “Following an exchange of gunshots, one suspect was wounded. “A total of 13 suspects were arrested by POPS and flying squad members and three unlicensed firearms were seized.” The Independent Police Investigative Directorate did not respond to questions before deadline. At least three churches have been targeted in recent weeks. The shootout on Sunday came as police were still searching for three suspects who robbed Higher Cross Baptist Church members at gunpoint in Lower Crossroads earlier this month. The robbers gained access during the church service when a congregant was walking out of the church, according to pastor Luvuyo Dwaba. “The three men who were standing outside pushed her at the door and got inside where they demanded everyone to lie down and hand over valuables including cellphones and also money,” Dwaba said. He said they were forced to continue with services at his house as the congregation felt unsafe at their premises in Lower Crossroads. A search was also still on for two suspects behind an armed robbery at the Hillsong Church at Century City on October 29. Two suspects, one armed, entered the church and robbed employees of their cellphones. Images of the suspects were distributed. The police said both cases were still under investigation and no one had been arrested. Freedom of Religion SA (Forsa), an non-governmental organisation working to protect and promote religious freedom in South Africa, has condemned the armed robberies at churches. Forsa’s Daniela Ellerbeck said: “We are saddened that places of worship have become targets for criminals and appeal to both the SAPS as well as the CRL Rights Commission, which exists to protect and promote the rights of religious communities, to ensure that the culprits are apprehended and face the full extent of the law, so that the religious community can continue to worship in safety.” Anyone with information about these incidents can anonymously contact Crime Stop on 0860010111 or SMS Crime Line on 32211. Cape Times