The hospital called on photographers, professional and non-professional, to submit images that would be put up in its new hospital in Stellenbosch. Photographers and hobbyists were required to submit photographs on a number of themes, including reflections, vineyards and majestic mountains. The best images were to be selected by a panel and would have been printed and displayed at the newly built Stellenbosch Mediclinic along the R44. “Photographers will be credited for their images, but not remunerated,” the advert for the competition said. The winner would be announced on November 30 and entrants were to submit 15 images on a CD or memory stick. This angered many in the field, with photographer Robyn Gwilt saying the competition highlighted the insults photographers dealt with on a regular basis. “Photographers spend many hours and hundreds of thousands of rands learning and honing their craft, and investing in hugely costly professional equipment. “Take into consideration time, fuel, vehicle expenses, flights, hotels, meals etc, just getting to locations where they have taken the photos, waiting for the definitive light and moment. “Photographers make a living from selling their photos. They do not just send high-resolution images ‘out there’,” Gwilt said. African News Agency multi-award winning photographer Phando Jikelo said the idea was absolute “nonsense”. “We are creatives, this is our daily bread. For such institutions that make so much money to want it for free is ridiculous. We would not be able to go to a hospital like that for free. “We need to be respected. It was uncalled for and I don’t know why they would think of this. “This is our God-given talent, this is art for us. It can’t just be free,” he said. Mediclinic later released a statement cancelling the competition, saying it had noted the negative reaction towards it. “Mediclinic sincerely apologises for the insensitive internal oversight of the competition terms and the unintended professional insult and/or hurt caused by the proposed terms. ‘‘Mediclinic views this internal procedural oversight that led to the situation in a very serious light and has therefore decided to cancel the competition in its entirety,” Mediclinic said. Mediclinic said the matter would be looked at by management. “At Mediclinic we respect the talent and creative contribution of all the creative disciplines and the important role they play in the areas of media, corporate positioning and fine arts.” Cape Times