The festival, presented in association with the Artscape Theatre Centre, celebrates the International Week for Persons Living with Disabilities and runs until Sunday. Entering its 4th year of showcasing groundbreaking, inclusive multi-disciplinary artworks to South African audiences, the festival is an integrated arts platform that presents world-class collaborative works by artists with mixed abilities (artists living with and without disabilities). An organiser said: “This festival incorporates dance, live music, poetry, visual arts, film, fashion design, art installations and theatre and site-specific performances as a medium to challenge the public’s misconception of people living with disabilities. "These artworks will encourage people to dismiss stereotypes and educate people about living in an integrated and inclusive society.” This year’s productions include Longitude of Silence, a collaboration between Durban-based dance company Flatfoot and Unmute Dance Company, and One At A Time by Swiss/Italian choreographer Alessandro Schiattarella and the Ability Market, which invites you into the complex world of disability. Following the physical principle of the chain reaction, the seven performers create group dynamics in which individualities remain present but also merge into a collective body. Today’s performances include Blind Date, curated by Themba Mbuli in collaboration with Elvis Sibeko, Nadine Mckenzie and Bamanye Yeko. This is an Unseen Arts Experience: exploring art through the experience without sight. Blind Date is an inclusive research orientated performance that involves dance, live music, visual arts installations and theatre performances. Organisers have promised that audiences will be taken on a journey to experience artworks without using their eyes in an inclusive and integrated audience with visually impaired people. The show is at 4pm and tickets cost R50 and R30 for students and pensioners. Tickets are available from Computicket or Artscape Dial-A-Seat at 021 421 7695. For more information about the festival, visit www.artscape.co.za