The book, Next Generation of Scientists in Africa, is aimed at scientists below the age of 40 and highlights the barriers that limit their career progression so as to make recommendations to nurture research talent. Between April 2015 and last month, researchers at the Centre for Research on Evaluation, Science and Technology (Crest) performed a three-pronged study consisting of a comprehensive bibliometric analysis of records from more than 50 African countries, a large-scale online survey with 5 700 respondents, and 259 qualitative interviews. Funding for this nearly four-year study came from the International Development Research Centre (Canada) and the Robert Bosch Foundation (Germany). The book was edited by Catherine Beaudry, Johann Mouton and Heidi Prozesky, and published by African Minds. Crest director, Professor Johann Mouton, said: “We recognise that young scientists are at the heart of innovation and knowledge creation, and therefore a powerful resource for change and development in Africa. "Understanding and solving the career challenges they face will enhance the future success of science systems across the continent.” Mouton clarified, however, that the careers of these young scientists had to be viewed against the backdrop of the state of science in Africa. Some of the hurdles experienced by young academics in Africa relate to their relative inexperience in funding applications, uncertainties in getting their research published, and demands that keep them away from their own research. The book details several recommendations such as giving focus to career mentoring, more training in academic writing and networking, new funding models and more opportunities for international mobility. Prozesky, a member of the research team, said: “It is important to keep in mind that many of Africa’s young scientists are first-generation academics. “For them, many of the expectations and roles associated with their positions are not clear.” The book is poised to add value to researchers interested in African research systems, policymakers who work with science funding, and organisations interested in African science and its funding. It costs R299 or can be downloaded for free at http://www.africanminds.co.za/dd-product/the-next-generation-of-scientists/