The suspects from Kuils River face 180 charges under the Prevention of Organised Crime Act relating to drug dealing. Rudi Lakay, Ike Collins, Jonathan Hermanus, Christiaan Green, Dwaine Rhode, Quintus Booysen, Alneiro Isaks, Mario de Wee, Eben George, Dylon Lakay and Liaan Erasmus indicated they would all apply for bail. Police spokesperson FC van Wyk said the men were arrested during a takedown operation in Kuilsriver on November 16. “A multidisciplinary team consisting of various SAPS units successfully executed a takedown operation early on Friday morning, when suspected gang members were arrested. The suspects were arrested at Victoria and La Paloma Flats in Kuilsriver,” Van Wyk said. The matter was postponed until November 26 for further investigation and bail information. The men will remain in custody. The Transportation Board, the South African Revenue Services, and the Asset Forfeiture Unit form part of the investigation, which is guided by a dedicated prosecutor from the National Prosecuting Authority, according to the police. One of the men arrested reportedly operates a transport fleet business. “During the raid, six suspected drug dens were visited and a substantial amount of cash, two hard drives and six cellular telephones were seized,” Van Wyk said. The provincial commissioner Khombinkosi Jula hailed the efforts of the officers for executing the arrests and restoring trust in the SAPS. “The arrest of these suspects is in line with the strategy of the provincial commissioner to target kingpins of organised criminal groupings and to seize their assets with the assistance of the Asset Forfeiture Unit,” Jula said. Top cop Major-General Andre Lincoln, who now also heads the Cape’s recently launched Anti-Gang Unit, said the operation has been a long-standing one in the Blue Downs Cluster, where the suspects have been under surveillance for dealing in drugs. “We have conducted a targeted and focused operation and these arrests are a classic example of the kind of work we have been doing. "Our focus is on taking down gangs and to do that we take away everything they have and put them away for a very long time,” Lincoln said. He said he was very optimistic about the Anti-Gang Unit. “People are now asking for the unit and the unit’s presence is definitely being felt. This is not just about effecting arrests, but also to restore peace and confidence to the community and to restore confidence in the police services,” he said. Cape Times