This is according to the provincial department of environmental affairs and development planning. The department investigated to verify the allegations against the city council that the Zandvliet Wastewater Treatment Works (WWTW) was discharging raw sewage into a man-made channel that flowed into the Kuils River, causing pollution, said spokesperson Rudolf van Jaarsveldt. “Officials of the department’s directorate of environmental law enforcement, pollution and chemicals management conducted two site inspections in conjunction with the city council on August 24 and November 1. “Based on the outcomes of the investigation, it was found that the parameters for chemical compliance have not been met and have thus resulted in chemical non-compliance at the WWTW. “As a result a pre-directive will be drafted and issued to the City of Cape Town to address the pollution of the river,” he said. On behalf of Al Jama-ah political party, its president, Ganief Hendricks, lodged a complaint against the city council for the alleged contravention of the National Environmental Management Act, 107, of 1998. He claimed sewage pumped into the Kuils River at a man-made estuary in Zandvlei destroyed a palm tree under which the first known educational institute in South Africa was established. The city council was slammed for merely erecting signs warning Macassar and Sandvlei communities not to go near the water, despite being made aware of the toxic quality of the Kuils River. Senior CSIR researcher Bettina Genthe was so alarmed by the results of water quality tests, she wrote to mayoral committee member for informal settlements, water and waste services and energy, Xanthea Limberg, expressing her concern. She said the city council was not aware of the severity of the health risk. City council media manager Luthando Tyhalibongo said the Sandvlei community was affected by poor-quality effluent leaving the Zandvliet WWTW. He said this was due to, among other reasons, considerable unapproved/unplanned development by residents of the catchment area that extends northward from Khayelitsha towards Kuils River. “The city has for several years been trying to upgrade the plant to improve final effluent quality, but this has been delayed by appeals processes. “Encouragingly, most of the upgrade work has been approved by (the city) council in the past few months, and is expected that work will begin in the first half of 2019,” he said. In the interim, the Health Department has re-erected signage in the area to ensure all residents were aware the river water was not safe for swimming or drinking. “Outreach programmes have also been conducted at schools in the area to educate pupils about the risk,” Tyhalibongo said. The city council’s sampling and testing frequency has been increased to a weekly schedule.