The Greencab Taxi Association in Wynberg along with the Mowbray Taxi Association (MTA) are offering a standard R10 fare for anyone travelling between Wynberg and the Cape Town CBD from Friday to Sunday. Greencab spokesperson Amien Carlsen says taxi drivers have been hit hard by recent fuel hikes and have been receiving complaints from customers about the resultant fare increase. “Every time the petrol went up, all of us were affected and about three weeks ago we had to increase our fares from R14 to R18,” he says. “Die mense het baie complain because everyone is struggling and as taxi drivers we discussed it amongst each other  (Commuters are complaining a lot because everyone is struggling and as taxi drivers we discussed it amongst each other.) ” The idea was sparked by association member Ighsaan Brown who says he was inspired by all the Black Friday adverts and he asked Carlsen if the taxis could give commuters specials as well. Black Friday is an American sales gimmick for the day following Thanksgiving and is regarded as the beginning of the country’s Christmas shopping spree. Carlsen says they sommer decided to make it a Black Weekend. “Yes, there will be people who use the taxis to go do their shopping but the regular commuters and loyal customers will also have a bit of a break.” MTA chairperson Adriaan Davids says they are excited for the weekend. “Yes, we are also only charging R10 and we are very excited. We have about 40 vans that are going to ride and in Wynberg they have over 80,” he says. Carlsen says commuters travelling from Wynberg to Cape Town are in for an additional surprise on Monday as the associations have agreed to cut their normal fare by R2 to R16 until further notice. “We spoke to the people and listened to how they are struggling. Every R1 is a R1 towards a bread or something to eat and when the prices go up, they are affected,” he says. “As taxis, we don’t get a government subsidy like the buses, so we take on all the costs but the ouens (guys) spoke now and agreed that R16 will work for everyone.” Daily Voice