 Tyre pressure and tread Make sure your tyre pressure is correct. This is critical for safety and to avoid a blowout. It’s important to always use a tyre gauge to check your tyres rather than relying on having a “look-see”. Pay heed to the dashboard tyre pressure warning light if present. Low tyre pressure wastes fuel. Your rubber is likely to have some kilometres on it, don’t ignore the tread. Take your car in to have the tyre tread checked on all four tyres to make sure they are not too worn or unevenly worn. If your tyres are worn or have damages to the sidewall from a bounce against a curb or pothole, it’s better to replace them rather than take a chance on them blowing out while you’re on the road.  Lights Test your lights when you’re in a garage, aim them at a wall or ask someone to walk around your car while you test them. Remember to test all your lights, indicators, brake lights and fog lights one by one.  Wipers and demisters Wipers tend to wear quickly, especially when your car is kept outdoors in the sun. Test both the front and rear wipers, squirt washer fluid to make sure your wipers clean the glass clearly. Make sure your demisters are working as a sudden mist-up can be dangerous.  Dashboard warning lights At first glance, dashboard warning lights can give you a quick indication when something is wrong. When you turn on the ignition, all warning lights should flash on momentarily. As soon as you note a warning light that stays on, get it checked immediately. Any warning light often warrants immediate checking by a professional.  Steering If you feel like you are having a tug of war with the steering wheel to keep your car tracking in a straight line, or the steering wheel vibrates too much, it’s likely your steering needs alignment or needs to be inspected by a professional.  Battery A dead battery means your car won’t start, possibly leaving you stranded in an unsafe place or situation, even worse if it’s late at night. A car battery usually needs replacing every few years, sometimes sooner. If your starter sounds sluggish, it’s either affected by corrosion or you have a dying battery - either way, get it checked.  Fluids Although car fluids are typically checked during routine services, make sure you check these from time to time, including windshield washer fluid, brake fluid, transmission fluid, coolant, and oil.  Spare wheel This is a simple yet critical check. Make sure you have a spare tyre, a jack, and a wheel spanner, and that they are all working properly. You probably haven’t used your spare for a while, so check its tyre pressure before setting off.  Brakes and clutch Always check the state of your brake pads by how your vehicle reacts to braking when driving; and if it pulls to either side under braking. If your brakes sound like they’re squeaking and scratchy or they’re shuddering, get them changed immediately. Road safety 101: it’s unsafe to drive a vehicle that cannot be controlled under braking.  Roadside assistance Sign up with a good roadside assistance service provider to prevent being stranded in bad weather or the middle of nowhere. They send help if you run out of fuel, have a flat tyre or need a jump-start or tow.