Cape Town – With the approach of the summer heat, Cape Town regularly sees visits from ocean sunfish called Mola mola, in local shallow waters, says the Two Oceans Aquarium team. Tuesday morning was no exception – with several trapped sunfish observed in the marina basin near the aquarium. Three sunfish were spotted in the basin the previous day, and once it became clear they could not swim out of the harbour, possibly due to disorientation caused by big ships in the harbour, the Two Oceans team decided to collect the animals. Ocean sunfish are the heaviest known bony fish in the world – easily growing to more than a ton. They are also known for being covered in skin parasites. To counter this, sunfish employ a number of tactics: cleaner wrasse and other reef fish often help out, and by basking on its side at the surface, sunfish allow seabirds to feed on parasites. Experts safely collected two of the ocean sunfish and brought them to the aquarium for veterinary assessment. Both sunfish were completely covered in a large variety of parasites, and these were all removed, by hand, for study – the aquarium is deeply involved with international studies of Mola mola parasitology. The first ocean sunfish which was collected was very small, the smallest sunfish the team had ever encountered at the aquarium. The second sunfish was quite a bit larger, although still small by sunfish standards, and was only slightly smaller than Holy Moly who was at the aquarium during the festive season last year. This sunfish was in a somewhat worse condition than the smaller one. It had clear signs of past injuries, a much larger variety of parasites, and it appeared the parasites caused quite a bad infection in the sunfish’s tail. The small sunfish was moved into the Predator Exhibit, where it could be seen swimming in a temporary enclosure at the exhibit’s back window. It is being kept in this enclosure to allow it to have a chance to rehydrate and recover after its most recent stressful situation and to make it easier for the team to monitor its health, and to allow the other Predator Exhibit inhabitants to get comfortable with this newcomer. Interestingly – this is the same enclosure that was used to house Holy Moly. The larger sunfish is kept in a large quarantine pool so that its health can be better observed. At the time of writing, the team were still out in the water looking for the third sunfish. “The aquarium does not rush into decisions about whether or not to keep animals, how long they should stay here and when they should be released. “Each animal’s individual needs are closely monitored, and we know from personal experiences that ocean sunfish can react very differently to life at the aquarium. “For this reason we are unable to comment on how long the sunfish can be viewed by the public – we are working entirely on the animal’s schedule,” the aquarium said. Interesting facts about the gentle ocean sunfish – Sunfish are so called because of their habit of drifting at the surface as if basking in the sun. – Sunfish do not have tails as other fishes do - the caudal (tail) fin has been replaced by a rudder-like structure. The ocean sunfish has a rounded, wavy rudder. – All sunfish have small mouths and the teeth are fused together in each jaw, forming a beak like that of a parrot. The beak is internal and hidden from view. – Sunfish feed on jellyfish. It is remarkable that an animal that grows to such a large size subsists on a diet with very little nutritional value. – Sunfish are not considered edible as they consist mainly of cartilage and gristle and their flesh is soft and insipid. – They are the most fertile of all fishes, producing up to 300 million tiny eggs. – The name “mola” is derived from the Latin word for millstone because of their similar shape. – One of the sunfish’s most striking features is its big, wide eyes. Scientists believe that larger eyes could help sunfish identify prey over greater distances, and help them take advantage of lower light conditions at greater depths, so enabling sunfish to dive deeper to search for prey such as siphonophores (class of marine animals belonging to the phylum Cnidaria, which also includes jellies), according to Sunfish Research.