In what may be one of the most exciting anti-poaching follow-ups of the year, the Endangered Wildlife Trust’s (EWT) Annie and Colin tracked through the night to secure this victory for wildlife. Suspected poacher tracks were found during a late afternoon anti-poaching patrol and Annie and Colin, with assistant, Mervyn and the EWT’s Canine Handler trainee, Shay were soon deployed. They followed the tracks through the night and completed a marathon in pursuit of the suspects in the dark. This was not a solo mission, as the community assisted with the chase, including the Balule Regional Anti-poaching Units, the South African Police Service, and a many Hoedspruit Farm Watch members who closed potential exit routes. The operation was skilfully co-ordinated by the Balule Operations Room and by daybreak, the suspects had been successfully contained within the reserve. With sunrise, air support could be brought in, and two fixed-wing aircraft (Flying for Rhinos and Game Reserves United), the Wild Skies Aviation chopper, a gyrocopter, and the Hoedspruit Air Force Base’s Oryx helicopter joined. The ground tracking team was joined by the Southern African Wildlife College Dog Unit’s pack hounds. Three suspects were arrested with the seizure of a rifle with a silencer and other poaching equipment. The poachers had done everything to try to deter Annie, including covering their shoes in sponge and continually backtracking and circling to try and confuse her, but to no avail. The EWT’s Conservation Canine Fury, that is trained to detect rhino horn, ivory, and ammunition, with Shay, searched for evidence at key sites. EWT Conservation Canine Annie and her team have been responsible for the arrest of no less than 12 suspected poachers this year, and her ability to operate at night with her handler is seen as a major step in the fight against rhino poaching. Annie is a 4-year-old Belgian Malinois dog that is trained to track humans. She has been working with Colin since June and was trained at the Southern African Wildlife College with the financial support of the Hans Hoheisen Charitable Trust. The EWT saluted everyone involved in this effort in the dark, in Big Five country. Annie’s hander Colin is urgently looking for a chest-mounted GoPro camera to record this kind of operation, for training and law enforcement purposes. Anyone one wishing to donate can contact Ashleigh Dore on: AshleighD@ewt.org.za.