The 34-year-old firefighter recently led a team of 23 Cape Town firefighters to assist in battling the Garden Route fires that had been ravaging the area for two weeks, and with mop-up operations afterwards. The fires claimed the lives of eight people including a pregnant woman in the Karatara area. Working on Fire pilot Nico Heyns was killed when his helicopter crashed while battling the blaze. More than 90 000 hectares were destroyed. The fire led to more than 400 residents being evacuated, with about 35 homes destroyed. More than 500 firefighters from all over the country were in action. It was the first time in Joseph’s firefighting career that he had fought such huge flames, he said, and it was a “great experience”. The father-of-two said the Garden Route fires had prepared them for Cape Town’s fire season. “We came back on Wednesday and I gained a lot of experience as team leader from other teams who came from different provinces. "It’s heartbreaking that lives were lost and some were left homeless. More fire awareness campaigns in those areas are needed. "I joined the Working on Fire programme in 2016 at the Vredenburg base as a firefighter and moved on to become a base communications representative, Type 1, and now a Type 2 crew leader relocated to the False Bay Base,” he said. He wanted to empower the youth in his community. “I saw joining Working on Fire as a great opportunity to learn and better myself, as well as try something new like firefighting as I am not afraid of any challenge. "The organisation afforded me the opportunity to use my stipend to maintain the gym and also complete my degree in project management through Unisa. “My dream is to expand my gym, which currently has over 40 members, and have classes for different age groups. In that way I will also be able to employ more youth in the community,” he said. Joseph said he had always been a sports fanatic, running marathons. He completed his first 42km Cape Town Marathon run in 2011 and currently facilitates a Working on Fire netball team of women.