Cape Town – Western Cape Minister of Economic Opportunities Beverley Schäfer will be requesting a full report from the SA Maritime Safety Authority (Samsa) and the NSRI to understand the circumstances under which a catamaran carrying British tourists capsized in Table Bay harbour. The NSRI had to rescue five tourists and three crew members after the catamaran capsized during a sunset cruise on Monday. It has emerged that the skipper probably saved the life of a British female tourist who was trapped in the galley. The catamaran, which was returning to the harbour, capsized at the breakwater entrance to Table Bay Port and the minister's spokesperson, Bianca Capazorio, said she is grateful there was no loss of life and that the NSRI found everyone wearing life jackets, the SABC reported “We just want to be assured that all standard operating procedures and safety precautions were undertaken during the trip. Especially seeing as though boat tourism is a popular pastime for visitors to the province and we believe that the industry needs to be operating under the highest safety standards.” "One female suffered a fractured shoulder in the ordeal and she is being treated for the fracture. They were bruised and shaken up by the ordeal but full of praise for NSRI and the emergency services' rapid response and after-care," said Quentin Botha, the NSRI Table Bay station commander. Those on board were also treated for mild hypothermia. NSRI spokesperson Craig Lambinon said they were able to launch two sea rescue craft immediately after the call came in just before 7pm. Commenting on the woman who had been below deck when the accident happened, Lambinon said: "She was trapped in the galley where water was rising as the cabin filled with water, causing a fast-diminishing air pocket that had provided some relief. "From what we understand, we believe that the skipper of the catamaran had free-dived under the catamaran after she capsized and he was able to bring the mom out from below decks." The SA Maritime Safety Authority has confirmed it will investigate what led to the boat capsizing. Kevin Knight, who owns the catamaran, told News24 on Tuesday that he was awaiting the outcome of the investigation and that their focus at the moment was getting the boat out of the water.