Cape Town – Municipal workers have started clearing debris from the roads in Saldanha and Vredenburg on the West Coast following violent protest action. Protests broke out in Vredenburg on Tuesday when hundreds of residents went on the rampage over poor service delivery. While calm returned to Vredenburg following the release of close to 40 arrested residents on Thursday, violence erupted in Saldanha Bay, with protesters burning tyres. Saldanha residents have accused the municipality of sidelining the disadvantaged. The Cape Chamber of Commerce and Industry has also raised its concern at the violent protests that have erupted at Vredenburg and Saldanha Bay. Exams at some schools in Vredenburg and Saldanha Bay were halted as a result of the violent protests. Rioters set alight several buildings, including the local civic centre, a clinic and the office of a local holiday resort. Various supermarkets in Saldanha were looted overnight. Residents are unhappy over a range of issues, including high electricity and water costs. More than 50 people were arrested during the protests. “We appreciate that service delivery and access to land is causing the residents frustration,” said Janine Myburg, president of the Chamber. "However, we cannot condone the destruction of public property, especially facilities like clinics and public halls – the very things that help build a stronger society. We feel particular concern for matrics in the area, with grades 8 to 12 being forced to halt exams. “I fear that we are becoming a reactive society if we continue to express ourselves with such wanton destruction and the accompanying vandalizing of homes and businesses. “This is not good for the economy and especially for the people in the affected areas.” Police spokesperson FC van Wyk said: “POPS and other law enforcement agencies continue to monitor the situation in Saldanha. SAPS recognises the right of the people to protest. However, they are expected to do so within the confines of the law.” Education Department spokesperson Jessica Shelver said matrics in the areas wrote their Xhosa paper 2 under difficult circumstances, and they were again forced to halt exams for Grades 8 to 11. “We urge the community to be cognisant of the fact the Grade 12s are writing exams and that should they not be able to write, the next opportunity they will have will be in May or June next year which will have a massive impact on their future study plans.”