Cape Town – Western Cape police officer Kabous Louw will fly the South African flag high at the World Angling Games next year. She was recently crowned the Shore Angling World Champion, reclaiming her title in Llandudno, Wales. The 46-year-old Public Order Policing (POP) unit member clinched her second title at the 26th World Shore Angling Championships for women and also won in the category for catching the most fish. Louw took to the podium again when her team, the South African Proteas, achieved second place overall at the six-day championships. The overwhelmed 46-year-old Wellington resident said she caught the fishing bug at a young age when she used to accompany her late father, who taught her to fish. “Although I cannot celebrate with him today, I know he is proud where he is. He passed away early this year but got to see my first victory in 2016. "My whole fishing family is happy and it means a lot to me being recognised at work. "I started participating in competitions individually, then joined a team with the police.  I went solo again and in 2015 I joined the national team, which was an eye-opener for me,” Louw said. She said funding and finding sponsors in South Africa was a big challenge. She paid for the recent trip and found few sponsors who were willing to assist her. “When we win, we get trophies not money. If we could also get money, I would be able to save for the upcoming competitions. "However, that doesn’t discourage me because I love this sport and it’s what I’m good at. It’s not an easy sport, the competition is always tough. "This win really surprised me. It requires one to be fit and be adaptable,” Louw added. She has started preparing as the national team will be leaving for Namibia on November 28. In February next year, Louw will be representing South Africa at the World Angling Games, to be held in Langebaan. Police spokesperson Novela Potelwa said Louw continued to be an inspiration to multitudes across the globe, including fellow South Africans. “Her unparalleled achievements are the pride of all SAPS members in the Western Cape," she said. "We trust that she will continue to hold the South African flag high as she soars to even greater heights in-shore angling.” Cape Times