Cape Town – Paramedics found experienced paragliding instructor Ant Allen in a critical condition on the front stoep of a Llandudno house – the second time the aerial photographer had plunged to the ground while paragliding. Ineke van Huyssteen of ER24 said in a statement: "The man was found to be in a critical condition, and his vital signs deteriorated rapidly. Despite the paramedics’ efforts, they were unable to revive him and he was later declared dead on the scene." It is not yet clear what had caused Allen, who was also a qualified aircraft pilot, to crash on Tuesday after taking flight from Leeukoppie. Western Cape police have confirmed that they have opened an inquest docket for investigation. Condolences poured in for Allen on Facebook, with Anton van Rooyen posting: “It is with great sadness to say goodbye to a dear friend, brother and paragliding buddy Ant ... I will always remember our times in the air and on the ground ...” Basil Pfister posted on Wednesday morning: “I got to work a few minutes ago and saw that Our Father covered your mountain in a fine blanket of cloud this morning in memory of you. Peace be with your eternal journey my brother. Until we meet again ...” Daniel Irving told News24 that Allen "has been my shooting instructor, my mentor, he trained me in bush tactics, helped me in situations when I have been in danger and has just been an amazing and true hero of Hout Bay". He said Allen had helped set up the Hout Bay neighbourhood watch many years ago and was also instrumental in efforts to make the area safer and better. "Cars have been stuck in sand and he helped to take them out with his Jeep. Trees have fallen down and he has been there. "I recently went to Imizamo Yethu with him and a whole lot of police looking for criminals. Many hours were spent doing foot patrols, being on the mountain..." Another friend, who asked to remain anonymous, said Allen patrolled Hout Bay day and night, both on foot and on his off-road motorbike. "He was responsible for (the] capture and handing over to SAPS of many criminals and is very well known and respected at SAPS Hout Bay... He was the heartbeat of Hout Bay," his friend said. On his business website, The Aerial Perspective, a post stated on Allen's serious paragliding accident in December 2000: “The near-death saga and temporary paralysis left (Allen) yet more focused on making something positive out of his second chance ... "He jokingly refers to it as his most positive experience he would never like to have to live through again.”