At the National Stock Theft Prevention Forum (NSTPF) meeting earlier this month, members discussed the challenges facing the criminal justice system and all role players when it came to curbing stock theft. It emerged that Mpumalanga recorded an increase in sheep theft, and the North West a serious increase in the theft of goats. The SAPS National Stock Theft and Endangered Species Unit identified 30 stations across the country that needed serious attention and were regarded as national hot spot stations. In the Western Cape, the Caledon/Beaufort West area has been identified as one such place. Others were the Ventersdorp/Mogwase stations in the North West, the Amersfoort/Dirkiesdorp spots in Mpumalanga, the Bronkhorstspruit/Fochville stations in Gauteng, the Lebowagomo/Matalala/Dennilton area in Limpopo and the Harrysmith/Selosesha stations in the Free State. The Escourt/Dannhauser and surroundings station in KwaZulu Natal, the Sulenkama/Bityi/Mtahata/Maluti/Mount Frere/Qumbu areas in the Eastern Cape, and the Hanover/Groblershoop stations in Northern Cape were also identified. “The NSTPF resolved that each province, with the assistance of the farming communities and stock theft units of a particular area, establish a Stock Theft Information Centre (STIC) as a matter of urgency, to address the high prevalence of livestock theft in their respective areas,” the forum said. The meeting resolved that all provinces report back at the next meeting, planned for May, on the successful establishment of the STICs and on local efforts taken to reduce livestock theft. The forum has recommended that the Minister of Agriculture Forestry and Fisheries change the age at which cattle/calves must be marked and that no animal be allowed to be sold if not marked - irrespective of age. The forum said that would result in no person or organisation in the value chain being allowed to buy or sell weaner calves if the animals were not tattooed. It called for the training of prosecutors in prosecuting livestock theft cases to receive the highest priority, the National Prosecuting Authority's budget permitting. “The NSTPF will seek an urgent appointment with Department of Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries and the SAPS’s legal advisers to seriously address the publications of the Movement of Animals and Animal Produce as well as the Animal Pounds Act.” With the festive season and planting season ahead, the forum has requested that all livestock owners register a unique brand mark in their name and to apply it to all livestock in their possession, in the manner described under the Animal Identification Act of 2002. All livestock buyers, auctioneers, feedlots and abattoirs have been requested to confirm livestock ownership and refuse to take ownership of livestock that are not marked or where the necessary “Document of Identification” and “Stock Removal Certificate” are not supplied. The forum said all the documents of identification should be kept on record for a year. Farmers should count their livestock regularly. When livestock was counted only after the planting period and losses were discovered, it was too late, the forum said. “From a criminological point of departure, producers are advised to regularly change all routines on their farms. Perpetrators access the routines on farms. "Producers who do not change their routines are more prone to livestock theft than those who do not abide by a strict routine. “The NSTPF requests that all role players in the red meat industry urgently play an active role in stock theft prevention and urge the general public for their assistance.”