Cape Town – Mayco member for safety JP Smith says there has been a backlash from the public over the years to the City disposing of thousands of litres of confiscated liquor. In the previous financial year, the City confiscated 16 926 bottles, equating to nearly 12 000 litres of alcohol, seized at beaches and other public spaces. The disposal is part of the City’s operational readiness plan for the festive season, the City said in a statement. In overseeing the disposal operation on Thursday, Smith said: "The destruction of alcohol usually elicits varied responses… from those fully in support to others who are aghast at the waste of good alcohol." Smith said the public is of the opinion the City must sell the liquor to recoup its expenses, but the legal advice is that it's not that simple “And there are some serious problems that arise, which the legal advisers also point out, and of course the main one is that people that people then start saying well you're confiscating the alcohol in order to make money out of it, you have an incentive for doing so, your goal is not public safety, but profiteering. "I think there is a powerful argument for selling the alcohol, but another big complicated matter is the legal fact that if the City were to sell the alcohol, we would need a liquor licence.” Smith said that people found with alcohol are fined R500 and provided with a receipt listing the exact items confiscated, in the event that they want to reclaim their goods upon paying an impoundment release fee of R624. "Alcohol is kept in storage for three months, after which it is disposed of in terms of the City’s by-laws, as you will witness today." Regarding the City's festive season planning, he said: "Let me reiterate that much of our festive season planning revolves around mitigating the impact of alcohol. "For example, we have increased our lifeguard complement to 334 because alcohol is one of the biggest contributors to drownings and sea rescues. "We exhaust overtime budgets and resources to ensure an increased presence on the roads to safeguard the public from drunk drivers. "Over the last few years, we have devised and implemented the Identikidz project at priority beaches to safeguard unsupervised children who get lost or hurt. "The enforcement services do their best to safeguard the public, but this is ultimately a problem that requires a change in mindset. The irresponsible use of alcohol remains too firmly entrenched in our social fabric and we need to start acknowledging that and calling out those who abuse alcohol. "While we find that alcohol confiscations are a big area of interest to the media and the public, there is so much more that goes into our planning to ensure that we keep Cape Town safe over this very busy period. "A host of departments will join in the overall effort to ensure the safety of residents and visitors, from enforcement and rescue services to transport and cleansing services… "This plan is our blueprint that we have developed and refined over a number of years. Even then, it is not static and can be amended to deal with any new challenges we might have to deal with. "The plan, in conjunction with regular meetings throughout the festive season involving all relevant City departments and external stakeholders from SAPS to the NSRI and the SPCA, ensures that we keep abreast of developments and are able to divert resources as and when necessary," he said. "However, even the best-laid plans come to nought without the buy-in of all concerned. I therefore call on the public to please do their part by adhering to the law, following the instructions of enforcement and emergency staff; particularly lifeguards on the beaches or at the public swimming pools, and taking responsibility for their own safety where it is within their control."