Cape Town – Struggle stalwart and social rights activist Ronnie Kasrils has described the two Grade 9 Herzlia Middle School pupils as "empathetic" young people who cannot ignore what he calls the "shameful acts of Zionist Israel". Kasrils was speaking at the Claremont Main Road Mosque during Friday prayers, in commemoration of International Day of Solidarity with the people of Palestine later this month, the SABC reported. He referred to the pupils going down on one knee in protest at the treatment of Palestinians during the playing of the Israeli national anthem at their school at the beginning of the month. Kasrils, who has previously applauded the pupils involved, said authorities at the school have demonstrated contempt for open-mindedness and the encouragement of free thinking. He claims Zionism has destroyed the heart of the Jewish community and called on the government to cut all diplomatic and economic ties with Israel until the oppression of the Palestinian people ends. While many have praised their protest as a courageous act for human rights, the school is suggesting disciplinary action be taken against the students. The pupils, who are themselves Jewish, believed that the gesture – first introduced in 2016 by American football player Colin Kaepernick to draw attention to police brutality and racial inequality in the US – was an appropriate form of protest against Israel’s half-century occupation of Palestine and the Israeli government’s repressive policies against the Palestinian people, the Afro-Palestine Newswire Service reported on Friday. “If we stand for the national anthem of Israel, we are not only standing for the words in it but we are also standing for what Israel is as a country right now. We were being forced to do that and we didn’t want to,” said one of the boys, who wished to remain anonymous. The boys also want to encourage a diversity of views on the issue of Israel’s occupation of Palestine - something which their school does not allow, the Afro-Palestine Newswire Service said. Education director of the United Herzlia Schools group, Geoff Cohen, said last week the boys’ protest was “embarrassing”, “inappropriate”, and had “brought the school into disrepute”. Cohen and the boys’ principal, Shane Brorson, in consultation with the management committee of the school’s governing body and the chairperson of the board of trustees, decided on a set of consequences designed to be “disciplinary and educational”. “Herzlia as a school has a big problem with restriction of information. When the teachers teach you (about Palestine-Israel) they only teach you one side of the story. "While teachers say its fine for you to talk about pro-Palestine ideas, inside the classroom they will only teach you pro-Israel ideas,” one of the boys said. This, he said, results in pupils developing a narrow-minded view about Palestinians and the pro-Palestine solidarity movement. The pupils also hope that their protest will spark a much-needed conversation within the South African Jewish community about the occupation. Education director of the United Herzlia Schools group, Geoff Cohen, said earlier the boys’ protest was “embarrassing”, “inappropriate” and had “brought the school into disrepute”. Cohen and the boys’ principal, Shane Brorson, in consultation with the management committee of the school’s governing body and the chairperson of the board of trustees, decided on a set of consequences designed to be “disciplinary and educational”.