Smile Foundation chief executive Hedley Lewis said yesterday the children will undergo reconstructive surgery at Tygerberg Hospital in Parow this week as part of the Smile Foundation and Tygerberg Hospital's celebration of Smile Week. The operations also mark the Smile Foundation's 10th anniversary of partnering with the hospital in facilitating such operations. Some of the operations include cleft lip and palate, craniofacial, as well as ear and nose reconstructive procedures, according to the hospital's acting head of the division of plastic and reconstructive surgery, Alexander Zuhlke. “It is a special time during Smile Week and it's always encouraging to see the difference being made in the lives of those children and their families. “During the 10-year journey we have formed a strong bond between the Smile Foundation and Tygerberg Hospital, which has seen many benefits to the lives of the children, as well as the training of South African plastic and reconstructive surgeons.” Zuhlke highlighted the case of nine-month-old baby girl Rehanni James, who is from Stellenbosch and was being operated on yesterday. He said Rehanni had been born with craniosynostosis of the sagittal and right coronal cranial suture, a congenital condition where one or more of the sutures of the skull closes too soon. Zuhlke said Rehanni was undergoing cranial remodelling to reposition the cranial bones, relieving pressure in the skull and giving her brain the room it needs to grow. The condition caused misforming of the face and head shape, throwing facial features out of alignment and leading to eye problems if not treated, said fellow surgeon Frank Graewe. “During the operation we open up the whole skull bone and eye-sockets and we try to rearrange the bone structures to improve symmetry and alignment of the eyes. "Usually such operations last about four and a half hours, sometimes longer.” Zuhlke said they will conduct about four operations per day during Smile Week. Smile Foundation operations director Moira Gerszt said: “This is a very important surgery for little Rehanni and will change not only her life but that of her family as well. "Ten years on, it is still so gratifying to see the difference we are able to make in these children's lives.” Cape Times