Cape Town – The Southern African Large Telescope (Salt), situated near Sutherland, was recently involved in the identification of a hypervelocity star, flung across the galaxy by a supernova explosion that occurred 90 000 years ago. The discovery of this star and two others may help to solve a decades-old debate on how supernovae occur. South African Astronomical Observatory science engagement astronomer Dr Daniel Cunnama said astronomers searched Gaia data, a large survey of stars in our galaxy, for candidate hypervelocity white dwarf stars - these are predicted by some models of how supernovae occur. “We expected a small population of such stars that had been ejected by supernova explosions. Once they had identified some stars with these high velocities, seven were found “The next step was to confirm what sort of stars they were, and therefore whether they had originated from such an explosion. “Salt was utilised to follow up on these stars and make those classifications,” he said. “Three stars were found to have originated from supernova explosions, and the astronomers managed to track the stars back to the explosion that occurred approximately 90 000 years ago,” he added. The combination of Gaia, which precisely measured the high-speed motion of these hypervelocity stars in the plane of the sky, and the ground-based spectroscopic observations, which provided a measurement of the radial component of the stars’ motion, had shown that these were among the fastest freely moving stars in the Milky Way. It was very likely that these stars represented the first discoveries of surviving companions to Type Ia supernovae, and that they confirmed the success of the D6 “dynamically driven double-degenerate double-detonation” model. This scenario predicted the possibility that the other star in the binary system was another white dwarf that could survive the explosion of its companion. Such a surviving star would be flung away from the system when the gravitational pull of its companion disappeared, and would continue zipping away at speeds between 1 000km per second and 2 500km/sec. The team undertaking the observations and data analysis was led by University of California at Berkeley researcher Ken Shen. The Salt observations were taken by Marissa Kotze at the Southern African Astronomical Observatory as part of a programme led by Saurabh Jha from Rutgers, the State University of New Jersey, in the US.