They were shot dead on Sunday evening as they began their shift, to protect the development from thieves and vandals who had been targeting the contractor’s equipment, said the City. Police spokesperson FC Van Wyk said: “According to reports four security guards were approached by four unknown suspects, who demanded their firearms and their belongings. "Two security guards, aged 25 and 35, were shot and fatally wounded. The circumstances surrounding this incident are under investigation, and there have been no arrests so far.” The murders have led to the suspension of the housing project. “These guards worked for the third consecutive security company hired to protect the site. Two previous security companies were unwilling to continue working in the area due to criminals violently targeting the development. "The City has also attempted to employ people from the surrounding community. However, they also resigned due to fears for their safety,” said Xanthea Limberg, member of the mayoral committee for informal settlements, water and waste services and energy. “Despite every effort being made to ensure that this development, which will improve the lives of some of our poorest residents, can continue, the City has now been forced to suspend construction as workers are too fearful to continue with the project.” Mzonti Mbaliswana, of the Philippi People’s Development Forum, said it was “upsetting that criminals want to take over our space as a community”. “At the end of the day we need the development. We regret what happened. People are taking advantage of development, seeing it as an opportunity for crime. "We are encouraging the community to come forward and assist police so these thugs and criminals can be arrested,” said Mbaliswana. “These security guards are from our communities, they are breadwinners. It is approaching December, who will provide for their families? “As the forum and community we are very disappointed. We send our condolences to the families (of the guards who were killed).” Mbaliswaba said the community hoped the new satellite police station set to be opened in the area tomorrow would bring stability to the area. “The current satellite station is not effective because there are not enough police resources there; we hope that with this new intervention, there will be an improvement.” Anyone with information about the murders can anonymously contact Crime Stop on 08600 10111 or SMS Crime Line on 32211.