Here are some guesses only.  I am not a reporter, I write comments – not news.  But his niece said that there were ten names written on one page in his diary, which had us all wondering WHO the other names were.  (And of course if we were one of them.)  She panicked because Fred Daniel at the Cradle of Life was third on the list, and the first two were already rubbed out, I mean crossed out… 1. Michael "Zane" Phelembe He was shot at his home in Pienaar, outside Mbombela, in May 2016.  Good leadership in future is impossible without good leaders like him. 2. 2. Samson "Moriri" Madonsela The MKMVA veteran who was shot dead at the ANC Youth League’s at an ANCYL conference near Badplass, in May 2018.  Are the January murders turning into the May murders? 3. 3. Fred Daniel This acrimony has been going on since Mabuza was an MEC, long before he became premier of Mpumalanga in Zuma’s illustrious “premier league”.  Their argument seems to be generating more heat than light. 4. 4. Caiphus Malomane He is leading the charge against Mabuza for rigging the ANC elections at Nasrec last year.  This could prove to be calamitous for the ANC in the run-up to the 2019 elections. 5. 5. Bishop Hangwi Maumela The whistle-blower from Faith Harvest Bible Church who made various allegations about David Mabuza being a brutal “strong-man” type leader, not fit to be Deputy President.  Since then, he has gone to ground.  I don’t mean underground like the 14 whistle-blowers who died (out of 17 shot) between 1998 and 2011.  Always in January.  He had better stay in hiding – at least until February! 6. 6. Norimitsu Onishi Johannesburg bureau chief of the New York Times, which ran a very un-complimentary article about Mabuza in August 2018. 7. Sizwe Sama Yenda The intrepid City Press Reporter whose beat is Mpumalanga and he has always called a spade a spade. 8. 8. De Wet Potgeiter Editor of The Lowvelder, who ran the story exposing State Capture at SAFCOL.  The story follows the very same methodology that Pravin Gordhan has recently outlined – starting with hijacking the Board and then driving out honest managers and replacing them with sycophants, so the looting can begin. 9. 9.   Andries Molapi Tlouamma He is the Deputy President of Agang SA who walked out of Parliament when David Mabuza gave his inaugural address, to protest that the investigation report by the Special Task Force into the Mpumalanga Murders has never been released to the public. 10. Matthews Phosa The first premier of Mpumalanga province who exposed Mabuza (just before Nasrec) for having his own “private army” to intimidate people. This Hit List is tongue-in-cheek.  I was so worried that I was on it, that I start counting up others who are into Mabuza’s bad books deeper than I am.  I was relieved to find that there are many who share my view that he is not suitable to be State President one day.  I said the same about Jacob Zuma when he was Deputy President – and I didn’t hide my assessment.  It proved right. If David Mabuza has travelled to Russia so that a death squad can do its dirty work in his absence, he won’t fool anyone. It is time for Democracies to champion whistle-blowers and journalists – not to rub them out like Jamal Khashoggi.