Luciano Swartz, Marquin Paulse, Byron Maans and Derick Appolis are each alleged to have killed last year, using weapons including an axe, fire and bare fists. Swartz and Paulse are accused of kidnapping Catharina Willemse, 28, from her Prince Alfred Hamlet home in the Karoo in August last year. They allegedly dragging her to the vineyard where they raped her. Willemse managed to return home half naked, burned and in extreme pain. She died in hospital 27 days later from severe burns, according to court papers. “Steven Willemse and Katriena Mienies, a neighbour, went to look for the deceased the same night without any success. “The deceased was hospitalised since August 4, 2017,” the State’s papers read. In Worcester, Frengilien Moses, 23, entered into a romantic relationship with Maans in January last year, which soon turned abusive, said the State. Moses had two daughters, and after the couple moved in together, Maans is alleged to have assaulted her 4-year-old daughter, Marilyn. In January this year, Marilyn was found dead, and a post-mortem showed the cause of her death was blunt force trauma to the abdomen. The State is arguing that Maans killed her. “On January 27, 2018, the two children were left in the custody of the accused by their mother and Marinda Maans (Maans’s mother). ‘‘The older sister was present with the accused and the deceased in the house when the deceased sustained injuries. “Upon the return of Frengilien Moses and Marinda Maans later that evening, the deceased was found lying naked in the bedroom with multiple injuries.” In Montagu in the Little Karoo, 8-year-old Jessica Opperman and her sister Teresa Opperman, 16, were at a family gathering at Appolis’s house where they were playing outside with other children. An argument erupted between Appolis and the girls’ mother, Andoline Opperman, who was his common-law wife. “The accused went to the bathroom, fetched an axe and assaulted (Jessica Opperman) with it. “Jessica Opperman was transferred to the Red Cross Children’s Hospital on November 11, 2017 and she died on November 13. ‘‘Dr Yolande van der Heyde conducted a medico-legal post-mortem examination on the deceased and concluded the cause of death was head injury,” the State’s papers read. All four accused are expected in the Western Cape High Court on different dates this month. Cape Times