Cape Town – The Bitou Local Municipality slammed MEC of Local Government Anton Bredell following his statement that the council attempted to prevent a Section 106 intervention into the dealings of the municipality following misconduct allegations. Bredell announced this week that they would send a forensic team to Bitou to conduct an investigation, following a Western Cape High Court judgment in his favour in a case brought by the Bitou council. Bredell said there were 11 different “serious” allegations of misconduct against the municipality, including the establishment of “ghost companies” clandestinely run by municipal officials, which performed non-existent contracts for the municipality. James Sijama, on behalf of the council, said: “Bitou municipality views the actions of minister (MEC) Bredell as a publicity stunt and abuse of authority for political gain. “Firstly, the allegation made in the statement that ‘Bitou Council wanted to prevent Section 106 intervention by the minister(MEC) into the dealing of the municipality following 11 different serious allegations of misconduct’ is not true.” The municipality said part of its court application wanted an urgent order that the investigation launched by Bredell be postponed until the review was done. “The decision of the MEC to institute the inquiry is sought to be reviewed together with a directive that the MEC produce the relevant record of the decision. “The council believes (Bredell’s) conduct falls foul of the constitutional principles of legality and principles enshrined in the provisions of the Intergovernmental Relations Framework Act,” said the municipality. Approached for comment, Bredell’s spokesperson, James-Brent Styan, said: “It was the Bitou council, using ratepayers’ money, who took the minister(MEC) to court, not the other way round. The Western Cape High Court has found in favour of the minister(MEC) and gave a costs order against the municipality. “This concerns the minister(MEC) as it appears to have been a waste of ratepayers’ money by the Bitou council. Furthermore, the minister(MEC) is concerned about the seemingly unwarranted attack against the Western Cape High Court by an official presumed to be in the office of the mayor of Bitou. “The minister (MEC) would like to highlight that the judge noted the following: ‘There are a number of serious complaints levelled at the municipality and its staff, particularly involving employees within the mayor’s office. Each complaint is sufficiently serious to warrant forensic investigation’.”