A group of parents at Rustenburg Girls’ Junior School lifted the lid on two years of struggle to implement transformation policies at the former Model C school and the alleged inaction of the provincial education department and school officials to do so. The group, calling themselves Parents for Change at Rustenburg Girls’ Junior School, held a press conference about concerns around resistance to transformation yesterday. This followed a Commission for Conciliation, Mediation and Arbitration (CCMA) process last week, where the school’s governing body (SGB) apologised to teacher Nozipho Mthembu, who told the commission she was unfairly discriminated against and asked to resign by the principal, Di Berry, or face a disciplinary hearing for reasons she had yet to be informed about. Mthembu was the school’s first black African teacher and a former pupil. Mthembu said she was told some parents questioned her competency and were unhappy that she was teaching their children. The commission acknowledged that unfair labour practices were used by the school. Parent and associate professor at Stellenbosch University Nuraan Davids said Mthembu’s case symbolised a lack of commitment to ensuring a diverse teacher and student body. “Its not simply about inserting a black teacher into the school, it’s about creating a climate where a black teacher feels he or she belongs. It’s of great concern to us that we have children of 11 years old asking whether a black person is qualified to teach.” She said the school is near a busy main road, bus and train routes, and should serve a diverse community. Davids said the school had also embarked on strange demographical practices to justify a reduction in black pupil intake, by saying it had increased coloured and Indian intake. As a result of these factors, three members of the SGB resigned last year. “We had a parent meeting at school that was shockingly painful and revealing. Inasmuch as there were parents saying we need the school to be more inclusive, there was a very loud group of people saying, ‘no, we want things to remain the same, we do not want black teachers’. “One parent actually got up and said, ‘when you take in black kids, your standards drop’.” The principal and the SGB did not address this, despite being in the room. “From there, the partnership we had hoped to forge with the school pretty much went south. We immediately engaged with the Western Cape Education Department (WCED). Promises were made, concerns were expressed,” she said, “but no concrete action was taken.” The parents have called for the department to dissolve the current SGB and for their concerns to be taken seriously. The SGB, meanwhile, said in a statement that it is finalising a parent code of conduct, which will be available for parent comment before the end of the month. “We have noted the allegations of inappropriate behaviour of some parents. These were not brought to our attention by Mthembu at the time and we were therefore not able to act on this. “This matter has been amicably settled with Mthembu. The termination of the relationship with Mthembu was in no way motivated by race. We have apologised to Mthembu that she felt overwhelmed by some of the support provided. “The SGB, the management team and staff are fully committed to transforming the school to be reflective of our diverse nation,” the SGB said. Spokesperson Bronagh Hammond confirmed that concerned parents had approached the department in November last year. “When the department became aware that some parents were raising concerns with, according to them, the slow progress of transformation at the school, the HOD and a team of top officials met with the group to try and understand their concerns. “Given that the year was nearing an end, an undertaking was given that in 2018 a series of engagements would be set up with various role-players to hear all sides of the story, and to ultimately seek a conciliatory approach to the issues raised,” Hammond said. She added that issues of racism were never raised. “At the last meeting in September, an agreement was reached by all parties for co-operation and that the concerned group would form part of the SGB’s diversity sub-committee. “The WCED remains committed to an ongoing process of reconciliation and ensuring that participative processes by all interested groups take place. We will offer to meet again shortly and recommend external specialist mediation.”