Mayosi was battling depression for the past two years, according to his family, and ended his own life in July. Last year, a research team led by Mayosi made what was described as the “biggest breakthrough in South African cardiology since Dr Chris Barnard’s first heart transplant”, for identifying a gene that is a major cause of sudden death by heart failure among young people and athletes. Following his shocking death, UCT announced it would institute an investigation into the circumstances leading to his death. Last month, UCT Council deputy chairperson Debbie Budlender said the council resolved to establish an independent panel to review the issues that stakeholder representatives had raised in regard to Mayosi’s death. “Following further inputs from stakeholder representatives, the council approved members for an independent panel. “Further details will be communicated as soon as the panellists have confirmed acceptance,” she said. In September, UCT council chairperson Sipho Pityana said Mayosi’s passing was not only a matter for UCT but a matter of national interest. “The Mayosi and Khumalo families requested a circumscribed approach that would avoid a public spectacle (and) every effort needed to be made to respect the memory of Professor Mayosi,” a document detailing council resolutions said. UCT’s Council resolved that an independent panel be established to review those issues raised by stakeholder representatives with whom the committee of the council had consulted. The panel - preferably up to three members - will be required to undertake a review through a two-stage process. Stage 1 will be a closed process, confidential to the family, and will seek to present a factual record and timeline of events from the point at which Mayosi was appointed as dean to the time of his passing. That will include a review of his induction as dean, support if any provided to him, his reported resignation(s), the reported non-acceptance of the resignation(s) and the reported proposal to appoint him as a scholar to lead a Centre of Excellence at UCT. Stage 2 will not be confidential and will seek to review the systems for the management of senior leaders, induction processes and institutional support for those in leadership positions, with a particular focus on black leaders at the university, and associated institutional culture factors. Cape Times