Johannesburg - DA leader Mmusi Maimane has requested access to the contract between President Cyril Ramaphosa's son, Andile, and controversial facilities management company Bosasa. Earlier this week, Ramaphosa confirmed that his son received R500 000 from Bosasa but denied that the payment was for dubious dealings and said he had questioned him about the payment. Maimane in a statement on Sunday said he had submitted two separate Promotion of Access to Information Act requests (PAIA). "I have today submitted two separate applications in terms of the Promotion of Access to Information Act (PAIA) – one to the Presidency and one to the African Global Group, formerly Bosasa – to gain access to the contract for services rendered Andile to the controversial facilities management company. "This is to ensure that Andile has not received any preferential treatment – including alleged kickbacks – by virtue of him being the son of the president." Maimane further said: "It [also] now emerges that Andile is directly involved in no less than 30 companies – any of which may have rendered services to Bosasa. In a country where almost 10 million of our people are unemployed and cannot find work, any shadow of doubt pertaining to the president’s immediate family must be thoroughly interrogated to ensure that no undue influence, malfeasance or corruption is present. "If there is nothing to hide, both Andile and African Global Group should have no hesitation in releasing the contract that underpins their agreement and relationship." The DA leader also said he had asked the president to publicly: divulge the nature of the "consulting services” Andile rendered to Bosasa, release the contract between his son and Bosasa, which he claims to have seen and clarify why, if this payment was legitimate, it was made to a trust account and not to his son’s business account. He said Ramaphosa has since failed to do so. "For the ANC, rich and connected 'insiders' continue to unfairly benefit at the expense of poor and unemployed 'outsiders'. Jacob Zuma's family and children benefited corruptly from his Presidency. "We cannot continue down this path under the Ramaphosa Presidency. Full transparency and accountability is the least we can expect from President Ramaphosa." IOL