The church has defended its decision, saying they would not revoke or suspend the man’s pastoral duties until he is found guilty. Lucinda Evans, Women and children protection activist and Mitchells Plain cluster CPF chairperson, said the church’s stance to “protect” the pastor was tantamount to "secondary trauma" for the victim. The group departed for their trip from Retreat Civic Centre last week Friday. This after a group of silent protesters, led by activists, were assured the pastor was not on the bus - not knowing the alleged perpetrator “would be picked up at another location”, said Evans. Evans said she was infuriated by the “blatant disregard and disrespect” for the safety of children. “We held a peaceful protest at the civic centre and were assured he was not on the bus. After the bus departed, we later got a message with a picture confirming that he was picked up at another location just outside of Cape Town. "It is sickening that brethren of the church would protect this man who is accused of molesting youth,” Evans said. The pastor allegedly sexually assaulted a matriculant of Seawinds. Police spokesperson André Traut confirmed the case was registered at Steenberg police station and is currently before court. OAC district secretary Edrick Ipland said he consulted the senior officer of the church, who he refused to name, and said they are aware of the 
criminal case. He also confirmed that they allowed the pastor to join the trip. “After consideration of the information received, he has not yet been found guilty of the offence... We respect the laws of the country,” Ipland said. Asked if protocols were in place to relieve a pastor of his duties pending the outcome of a criminal case, Ipland said: “Should he be found guilty by a court, his office as priest will be suspended with immediate effect, and further action will be pursued in terms of the church’s code of conduct and disciplinary regulations.” Meanwhile, George pastor Areal Haarder, a former church leader of the 7th Day Adventist Church in Pacaltsdorp, was handed a two-year house arrest and community service sentence at the Thembalethu Regional Court for the sexual assault of a 10-year-old girl, National Prosecuting Authority spokesperson Eric Ntabazalila said. According to reports, Haarder had confessed the sexual assault to Pastor Eugene Carolus, of Elim Seventh Day Adventist Church, on November 14, 2016. The girl’s mother had told the Cape Argus: “As a mother, 
I am trying to work through emotions of being hurt, but mostly disappointed how my family is being treated. "From the time Carolus heard the confession, he failed to report the matter to police and brought me to a meeting under false pretences.” Carolus, however, has said he felt the church did what it thought was beneficial for the victim at the time.