He said municipalities needed to ensure that “the most vulnerable beneficiaries” get prioritised when houses were allocated. This comes after Madikizela met with 25 municipalities in the province to discuss the recent land invasions, which resulted in sporadic protests, and came up with proactive steps to deal with the protests. Dunoon, Vrygrond, Hermanus, Mitchells Plain, Parkwood, Ocean View, Gugulethu and Gansbaai had been affected by protests for land and housing in the past four months, said Madikizela. He said the violence, destruction of property and looting associated with these protests was condemned and would cost the province millions. “It is therefore important for municipalities to align their business plans with the database. There is capacity constraints in some municipalities; some are not doing what they should be doing,” Madikizela said. “There are people with genuine concerns who are gatvol with the pace of service delivery and the manner in which houses are allocated. “In most instances you will see a pattern in our municipalities where people who are not on the waiting list or have registered on the waiting list for the last five year, but were getting houses. “We cannot prioritise land invaders over those who have been registered on the Western Cape housing demand database for many years. Prioritising certain projects due to protest action will mean that other existing and planned projects are delayed as a result.” Meanwhile, mayor Patricia de Lille visited Dunoon, where the City is hosting a two-day expo informing the community of planned developments in their area. De Lille and mayoral committee member for transport and urban development Brett Herron looked at the exhibitions detailing the City’s plans to build a public transport hub and future housing developments for Dunoon. This week saw the destruction of community infrastructure in Dunoon, and land was invaded. De Lille has met with a broad range of Dunoon residents and community leaders and asked residents to work with the City to help protect the land from invasions. She said housing opportunities would include a range of community facilities and amenities.