The sculpture marked a day that left destruction on a scale that had not previously been experienced within a local municipality in the country. About 10 deaths were confirmed and hundreds of properties were gutted in the fire. The unveiling was in support of the Garden Route Environmental Restoration Seminar, which reflected on the rehabilitation of Knysna and surrounds, and planning ahead. Environmental advocacy groups and researchers from the southern Cape used the commemoration to look at long-term strategic planning during the event that commemorated the fires. Cobus Meiring, of the Southern Cape Landowners Initiative, said: “The seminar comes after nine months of planning, collaboration and alignment to ensure that measures will be in place to avoid such devastation catching us off guard again. “This forms part of the Garden Route Rebuild Initiative, and has been communicated with the national government, which will allocate funding accordingly.” The Working on Fire (WOF) programme paid homage to the hundreds of brave young men and women firefighters and volunteers who battled the fire. At the peak of the fires WOF dispatched 485 firefighters, 
12 management and 12 light delivery vehicles, 11 fire trucks and six crew buses. The organisation also dispatched 17 pilots, four Huey helicopters, four fixed-wing spotter planes and two 802 AT water bombers to provide firefighting services to the Knysna and Plettenberg Bay fires. WOF’s managing director, Trevor Abrahams, said: “The deployment of the national Department of Environmental Affairs Working on Fire resources together with local, district and provincial firefighting resources and volunteers from the Volunteer Wildfire Service and many other organisations became the largest deployment to a single fire incident in South African history. “The speed of deployment undoubtedly made a significant contribution to saving lives and property in this 
battle.” MEC of Economic Opportunities Alan Winde said the fire necessitated the 
deployment of the largest contingent of firefighters and emergency personnel for a 
single operation in the country’s history. “The focus in the first six months after the fire was on short-term interventions to minimise further risks, such as preventing landslides on 
slopes that had been made unstable as a result of burnt-out vegetation. “During this period, a comprehensive disaster funding request was submitted to the national government, and approval of some disaster funds is expected soon.” He said long-term strategy would be utilised to create more jobs, address the 
lack of affordable accommodation, protect the environment, and put plans in place to 
ensure that this did not 
happen again.  dominic.adriaanse@inl.co.za 