The unemployed Lumka Soxuza, who had borrowed money from friends and family for the emergency journey was caught by surprise when she discovered that the index finger of her 12-year-old son, Sibahle Soxuza, was amputated without her consent. She detailed her harrowing ordeal of being sent from “pillar to post” when inquiring at the Athlone School for the Blind and the hospital about who had given permission for the amputation. Before travelling, she had not been aware of the extent of the infection despite enquiring from the school on several occasions. “I was told it was not serious,” she said. “No one was telling me anything. I demanded answers, why he was injured, the extent of the injuries, who was accompanying him but I was not getting answers,” said Lumka. “I feel disappointed because no one seemed to notice his injuries for 10 days before he was sent to hospital. There are not too many children at the school, so it should not be hard to pick up when something is wrong on a child. “When I eventually went to the hospital I was shocked to see my child’s finger was amputated. How can they do that without my permission? It is not true that they could not get hold of me because they are the ones who told me he was at hospital,” said the frustrated Soxuza. She said Sibahle had told her that he got the infection when one of the children pushed him on a playground. Tygerberg Hospital spokesperson Laticia  Pienaar  said  they got a “telephonic” consent from the school’s principal Fletcher Fisher. She maintained that the “necessitated amputation of the tip of the digit” was done in the best interest of the boy. Pienaar said Fisher “was able to give consent for the operation (acting in loco parentis in emergency cases such as this)”. “Telephonic consent was taken from the school principal, and the child was taken to theatre that same night,” said Pienaar. “If not treated promptly, (it) can cause significant loss of function and morbidity to an individual and in certain cases can even cause death,” she said. She said during surgery the fingertip was found to be necrotic (the death of a piece of tissue or bone). “The loss of a portion of the patient’s index finger is regrettable, but the prompt and appropriate management that this child received was paramount in maintaining the rest of the hand’s function.” Fisher said he only knew about Sibahle’s injuries on the morning of the day he was admitted in hospital and only gave consent for him to have his finger “drained” not amputated. Fisher said when Sibahle was at the hospital, a doctor called and alerted him of the seriousness of the infection and that is when he gave consent for the drainage of the finger. He said he couldn’t get hold of the child’s mother. He said every week he gets a progress report of goings on at the school’s hostels and it was not mentioned that Sibahle was injured. “There was no chance for me to investigate; that will happen when schools reopen,” said Fisher.  sandiso.phaliso@inl.co.za  Cape Times