Willemse had been given until 9am on Saturday to resign, after the DA  accused him of contravening the party’s constitution and siding with the opposition to vote in favour of a motion of no confidence in former mayor Eleanore Bouw-Spies. The DA's Western Cape leader, Bonginkosi Madikizela, and provincial chairperson Anton Bredell visited the Eden District at the weekend to address the party's Knysna caucus. DA councillor and former deputy mayor Peter Myers told the Cape Times that Willemse had informed him he would not step down, despite pressure from the DA leadership. “He has informed the leadership of his decision and is seeking legal advice with regard to his position. ‘‘He has received tremendous support  from hundreds of residents who showed up at the venue of the DA’s meeting with us. "His decision not to address the media at this time stems from the Patricia de Lille 
matter, where her quotes were used against her,” he said. The ball was now in the party leadership’s court, said Myers, as it would be inexcusable to fire their own DA mayor, who had overwhelming support from the citizens of Knysna. Madikizela had last week described the motion as a “coup”, accusing Myers and Willemse of colluding with the opposition for personal gain According to the DA, the main problems included that Willemse was also the Eden District speaker and therefore by law could not accept a second executive position; and secondly, that voting with your conscience was questionable if you were the direct beneficiary, which the DA believed was the case here. Madikizela said: “The life of this mayor will be very 
difficult as he does not have the support of his caucus, who are the majority in this council. "While Willemse and others would have us believe that this is in the best interests of the people of Knysna, this is naive. "The opposition voted for him not because of the best interests of the people, but to divide the DA. ” He said Willemse had informed the DA leadership that he was consulting his lawyer, but had not told them by when he would respond. Knysna ANC chief whip Titi Gombo said Madikezela’s claims of collusion were “ridiculous” as there were no meetings with any other opposition or DA caucus members before the vote. She said the fact that two DA councillors had remained (in the council) after eight had walked out spoke volumes, and was what would have happened had the ballot been secret and the councillors allowed to vote according to their conscience. The motion was tabled by the ANC, citing Bouw-Spies’s failure to perform her duties 
and ensure service delivery in the greater Knysna area, and effective functioning of the council.  dominic.adriaanse@inl.co.za 