Cape Town - Mayor Patricia de Lille has for the second time taken her pop-up office to the streets - this time to Eersterivier, where residents shared their problems.
De Lille was joined by councillors and the area’s local sub-council chairperson, Chantal Cerfontein, for a walkabout and a visit to the mall, where residents gave De Lille an earful. She said she was inspired when she visited the Joy Vineyard Church, which runs a feeding scheme and has a tutoring programme in place that provides extra-maths classes for learners in the area. “The City is grateful for organisations such as these and would like to connect with more organisations in all areas to collaborate on ideas and programmes that will uplift communities through positive interventions that will help us build a caring city,” De Lille said. She said some of the projects being undertaken are for the upgrade of several roads, which includes Langverwacht Road in Kuils River and Buttskop Road, near the Blackheath Industrial area. The City has set aside funding for the upgrade of four parks, including Impala Park in Kleinvlei, Rusdaal Park, Dennemere and Duiker Park among others, De Lille said. “In the last financial year, CCTV cameras to the value of R200 000 were installed in the ward to ensure safety while an amount of R200 000 has been set aside to fit more cameras in the coming financial year. "These projects go hand in hand with support provided to neighbourhood watch groups who do amazing work patrolling their areas." De Lille said support worth R100 000 for equipment, such as reflective vests, two-way radios and bicycles, were given to neighbourhood watches. “This was to assist the residents in keeping the streets safe. This kind of collaboration is how we are making progress,” she said. A youth empowerment programme is also empowering 20 young people with level 3 first-aid training. During talks with residents, councillors and City of Cape Town officials distributed the City’s contact details. Last week, De Lille was in Athlone where, when she launched the pop-up office, she was given a host of complaints by residents. Cape Argus