Several problems affecting bees have been identified, including insufficient forage, theft and vandalism, disease, environmental hazards such as pollution, and exposure to external factors such as fires and drought. The strategy focuses on five areas: ensuring sustainable bee forage; research and innovation, developing a regulatory framework; and transformation in the industry, among others. According to the report, it is accepted that the sustainability of the honey bee will contribute to food security for the future. This is due to reliance on honey bees for pollinating agricultural crops. The SA National Biodiversity Institute (SANBI) says more than 50 different crops in South Africa are dependent on insect pollination. “With regards to commercial beekeeping, 50% of participating beekeepers’ revenue in the Cape at present come from pollination services and 50% from honey production and other bee-related products. "This is substantially different to the rest of the world, where honey production is generally the main income. South Africa has imported more than 2 000 tons of honey annually since 2010, and honey production consequently dropped to 40% of what it used to be in the 1980s,” the report read. The Department of Economic Opportunities said the strategy proposes a Bee Forage Commission be set up, composed of players from various provincial and national government departments, as well as universities and representatives from the bee industry. Economic Opportunities MEC Alan Winde said a properly regulated industry has the potential to create jobs and expand the economy. “We need to take this document with its implementation plans and ensure that each goal sits with somebody who is going to make sure it becomes a reality. This is an agri-
processing opportunity to produce local honey and honey-related products right here in the Western Cape,” he said. Western Cape Bee Industry Association chairperson Tlou Masehela said: “This is a detailed plan and we now have a line of communication with the various government departments. This will require resources and we must explore ways of getting those. The industry at large should pull together and make this work.”