He was reacting to a May 31 incident at Temperance Town Primary school in Gordon’s Bay, where a Grade 4 pupil allegedly called a classmate the “K” word and other racial slurs. The incident was only noted after a teacher noticed the 9-year-old was in distress and continued to enquire about what happened. The boy was suspended, according to the Western
Cape Education Department. “It is very unfortunate. The fact there is a lot of problems across the province around issues of diversity. The Education Department must make a massive effort to sensitise 
our learners.” He said the incident spoke to the broader society. The child’s mother said: “This child is trying to make my daughter believe that there is something wrong with being black. “I don’t want it to affect her in the long run. “She didn’t even want to tell me what happened. We had to ask her two or three times,” she said. The mother said she contacted the school and was told that a disciplinary hearing was being held. She said the parent of the perpetrator refused to attend. “The boy’s mother just said they were moving and she wasn’t coming to the meeting. Thereafter, nothing more happened to the boy. “He was just told he could write his exams and that his mother had to fetch him immediately afterwards, which only lasted a few days. “It is wrong; now he will go to another school like nothing happened and do it again.” Reacting to this, Nissen said: “It is more unfortunate that the parent doesn’t want to take responsibility as a parent to help the child understand what was done is wrong; embrace children.” The department said the boy had been suspended on June 12. Department spokesperson Bronagh Hammond said: “The WCED views allegations of racism or discrimination 
seriously. We were not 
aware of this case prior to your enquiry. “The district has made enquiries and the school followed the relevant disciplinary procedures. “The learner was suspended on June 12 and was allowed to come to 
the school to write examinations only.” “The learner is allegedly not returning to the school. The school was unable to conduct the disciplinary hearing despite its efforts to do so.” The department said schools must deal with cases of racism and discrimination in terms of the abuse and that school code of conducts must also be in line with the values of the constitution.  nicola.daniels@inl.co.za 