Robben Island Museum has welcomed the Competition Tribunal’s fining of three ferry companies for price-fixing and collusive tendering. An investigation by the Competition Commission, following a complaint from the museum, identified five companies who allegedly colluded on the tender: Thembekile Maritime Services (Pty) Ltd (Thembekile); Silverbuckle Trade 21 CC t/a Yacoob Yatch (Silverbuckle); Nauticat Charters (Pty) Ltd (Nauticat Charters); Ferry Charters (Pty) Ltd (Ferry Charters); and Tigger 2 Charters (Pty) Ltd (Tigger 2 Charters). The tribunal yesterday confirmed a settlement agreements with Thembekile, which was penalised R350 000, Silverbuckle penalised R249 171, and Nauticat Charters penalised R422 087. “As Robben Island Museum we strongly believe in good governance “We hope that this outcome will send a strong message to other service providers to be mindful of unethical business conduct that exposes and makes state entities vulnerable to financial risk and loss. “We commend the commission on resolving the matter in alignment to their mandate to achieve equity and efficiency in the South African economy,” the museum said. The commission’s investigation found that around September 2015 the respondents met at the Cape Town Fish Market Coffee Shop, where they discussed increasing the prices they would charge the museum when responding to a tender it issued. The tender was for bidders to be listed on the museum’s database as a preferred service provider for a 12-month period. Subsequent to the meeting Thembekile and Nauticat Charters increased their prices to R18 000 per trip for 140 passengers. Ferry Charters did not alter its price as it was already charging R18 000 per trip for 140 passengers and this resulted in all three quoting the same price. Silverbuckle increased its price per trip from R7 750 to R8 775 for a 65-passenger vessel, while Tigger 2 Charters raised its price per trip from R11 500 to R12 650 for its 65 passenger vessel.  francesca.villette@inl.co.za 