The debate around land and land claims continues to rage on in the city and as Youth Day approaches, many in the youth bracket say the issue around land also resonates with them. With Youth Day being celebrated on Saturday, we asked a few how they felt the issue around land and land restitution affected them. Singata Mangxamba, 26, from Langa, said each citizen should be entitled to a piece of land if they live in a city. “Every one should have some place to call home. I think they are entitled to that. I’m not sure how it would work with distribution of land and how big the land should be. “I’m not saying give people 80 hectares of farm land that won’t be used, but at least some place they can call their own,” he said.  To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. Pelican Park resident Rachel Arulandu, 28, said trying to own property has become a challenge in itself. “I do think the issue of land resonates with us as it is very difficult in this country to own a house. In order to have debt you need to make debt and if you’re in the youth category it would take a very long time for you to purchase your own property. “At the moment the best we can do is rent instead of buy when in actual fact that rent could have gone towards you buying your own house or over a long period of time of renting, you could have used that money to own your own property,” she said. Arulandu said she has previously tried to purchase her own property. “I feel that land restitution must take place. There is a huge gap in the market due to economic imbalances and this has affected our youth negatively,” she said. Yesterday, spokesperson for Human Settlements MEC Ntomboxolo Makoba-Somdaka said at least eight communities have been affected by protests for land and housing in the past four months. All eyes will of course be on EFF leader Julius Malema, who has called for a "revolution" if the land issue isn't resolved. He will be holding a Youth Day rally in Klerksdorp on Saturday.