In Cartoon Network Live! Kelvin Gizmo, scientist extraordinaire, takes you into the world of Cartoon Network which is under threat of Zarr, the evil robot. Viewers travel through the Land of Ooo, the city of Townsville and Elmore, and meet their famous inhabitants. With them, and the help of the audience, Kevin Gizmo will hopefully be able to stop Zarr and his evil plans. Creative director and choreographer Bart Doefler said: “The story was inspired by good can conquer evil. “When we all got together to create the script we wanted to tell a story that takes people away to a really good place where they can sing and dance and have fun. “Before the show I wanted kids to get excited because they were going to see their favourite characters, that little star-struck feeling. “The show is not only for them but also for their parents, so when they walk away the children will think ‘I was sitting there dancing and singing with my mom or dad having a blast and they’ll always have those memories’.”  To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. Little Chisom Okyoe said he loved the show: “My favourite part was the dancing part at the end.” Doefler said his vision was to give children the feeling of their first concert. “My vision was to create a concert vibe for kids, so I kept all the ‘truss work’ to give it that feel.” Cartoon Network Live! featured Ben 10 and Gwen, Gumball, Jake and Finn and the Powerpuff Girls because they were found to be the most popular Cartoon Network characters in South Africa. “We chose the characters through popularity. “Ben 10 and Gwen are the most popular for South Africa. “We like to hit the markets/characters that people love. “It can change up, depending on the country,” said Doefler. The show will be at GrandWest until Saturday. Tickets are available from Computicket, from R245 to R365, with up to 50% off on off-peak shows.