He has been selected to take part in the Berklee Global Jazz Institute Workshop. The shows are called the “Timothy Ehrenreich Collective” and will take place at Lounge 021 at Swingers next to Wetton Bridge this Sunday, and the Lapa in Kraaifontein on July 8. Ehrenreich ,18, from Mitchells Plain hopes to pursue his tertiary education at Berklee with the goal of not only further nurturing his talent but also becoming an academic in music. He applied with little hope of being accepted, but thought it was worth taking a chance. “Now I am ecstatic. I am literally counting down the days,” he said. “This means so much to me, it is a huge stepping stone. This opportunity means a lot, it is a big accreditation to my career and future prospects. It also makes it easier when I apply to Berklee again. It will also be my first time overseas, so I am really looking forward to the experience as whole.” The Berklee Global Jazz Institute Workshop at the Newport Jazz Festival, hosted by Salve Regina University, offers aspiring young musicians, a five-day intensive jazz program taught by world-renowned faculty and led by artistic director Danilo Pérez and managing director Marco Pignataro. The programme features ensemble rehearsals, master classes by musicians who have appeared in the Newport Jazz Festival, and final performances, with all students to play on the Newport Jazz Festival stage. About his show, Ehrenreich said people could expect, “ the best of smooth jazz”. “They can sit down, relax and enjoy the sweet sounds of good jazz. “It will be a mixture of all the best smooth jazz repatures you can think of. I can’t do this on my own, I would love and appreciate if people can come and support both events, you don’t want to miss this, we have a stunning line-up. “This is a once in a lifetime opportunity I’ve been afforded and I need all the help and support I can get. The Swingers show will start at 4pm featuring Charlton Daniels from the “Top Dog” band on bass, Anthon Manuel on drums, Roderick Mckay on piano and Ehrenreich himself on guitar, as well as his brother Stephan Ehrenreich on vocals. Tickets to both concerts cost R100 each and are available from Andre Ford at 072 395 4703.