Within the first four days of operations they covered 57km and removed 33 snares. The following weeks they also found three meat camps and with the assistance of park rangers ambushed and captured three meat poachers. Snaring is a common and inexpensive method used to catch wildlife, and is as cruel as it is effective. In 2016, rangers removed a staggering 664 snares from Limpopo National Park, strategically placed by poachers, often around water points. A century ago more than 200000 lions roamed across Africa. Today only about 20000 remain, says the Peace Parks Foundation, which facilitates the establishment of transfrontier conservation areas. Over the last year, seven lions were killed by poachers in Limpopo National Park. In May, two lion cubs, a male and female, were found poisoned close to a river in the park. Recently graduated from a ranger-training course offered by the Southern African Wildlife College, the Limpopo Lion Protection Team were rapidly deployed into known lion ranges and tasked with securing these areas from targeted lion poaching. They have also been tasked with protecting the animals from poisoning - the Endangered Wildlife Trust has named poisoning as the most significant threat to vultures in 
Africa and Eurasia, which has contributed to decline of more than 80% in some African 
species. The practice involves the application of an over-the- counter pesticide to a carcass, the size of which directly relates to the number of animals that will be affected. The main target is usually predators - lion, hyena, jackal or leopard. Bones and body parts are sold for export to the East or used for traditional practices. But non-targeted species also suffer. In a single incident in the Kruger National Park in 2017, 49 vultures died after feeding on poisoned antelope carcasses. Lion poisoning has been steadily increasing in Limpopo National Park. Peace Parks Foundation project manager for the park Peter Leitner said this was of grave concern. “Over the last year, there have been seven lions poisoned and eight incidences were recorded where poisoned bait was found in the park. In the communal land south of park, two lions were poisoned when they fed on a cow laced with poison. In May, two lion cubs were found poisoned,” he 
said. Realising the potential impact of this threat, combined with other poaching methods, Peace Parks Foundation, in partnership with the Mozambican National Administration of Conservation Areas, established an intensive protection zone (IPZ) within the park with the purpose of creating a stronghold in an area that has the largest concentration of game. Leitner said because of the high game numbers there, the area was an important component of tourism development which would, if the game had recovered, attract tourism investors. It was also a critical focus point for illegal activities of wildlife crime syndicates. Patrolling the enormous expanse of the park’s more than 1 million hectares is an almost impossible task with the resources available, he said. Through the IPZ strategy, 80% of anti-poaching resources can now be allocated to securing the most vital poaching hot spots along the park’s western border, which is shared with the Kruger National Park. For many years, the Greater Limpopo Carnivore Programme has been doing continuous research in the TFCA, covering an area of about 38000km². Through scientifically-guided conservation activities, the programme aims to recover and restore the long-term viability of the lion population spread across the large cross-border conservation landscape which forms part of the Great Limpopo TFCA. According to Leitner, this is important research as lion is a key species which needs to be continuously monitored. “They are always in conflict with villagers in the area because of the threat they pose to livestock and livelihoods. “To mitigate this, villagers are encouraged to corral their cattle at night, and park rangers and the research team provide early detection and warning to villagers when lion enter their areas. What is, however, making the situation worse is that some poachers are specifically targeting lion for their bones, which are harvested for both traditional use and for export to the East,” he said. The Limpopo Lion Protection Team rangers have been assigned to the research groups so that they can move in the home ranges of the lion. The team is accompanied by a park ranger who maintains constant contact with other rangers in the park to communicate poacher tracks and co-ordinate joint operations when needed.