She said she believes the healthy food she and her family shared during her childhood was the driving force behind her milestone. Born on June 17, 1918, in Wargrave Road in Kenilworth, the fourth child of Frederick and Dorothy Taylor, with two siblings following after her, Hendricks is the sole survivor. She married Henry Hendricks during her mid-twenties, but later divorced him and raised their three children - a son Robert and two daughters Dorothy and Esmé on her own. “I’m always happy and I loved my teaching career as it was a satisfying job. I’m very positive and hope that our new leader (Cyril Ramaphosa) will bring us some positive changes. Nelson Mandela was a wonder. He would have been 100 years old this year,” said Hendricks. She has seven grandchildren and 10 great-grandchildren aged 5 to 7 years. Her grandchildren Nadine Bowers-Du Toit, who is a professor at Stellenbosch University, said: “We admire her courage and standing up against the apartheid system. She was always very compassionate and served on the boards of child welfare associations.” Her children, grandchildren and great-grandchildren praised her as a warrior and student who had been graceful throughout her a life. “You have defied seemingly insurmountable odds to make it to where you are today,” they said. “In an era where women’s rights have only started to take centre stage, we are all the more in awe of what you’ve managed to achieve as a single mother of three. “You are the original social justice warrior and a respected community figure, having taken on a repressive (apartheid) regime and come out victorious.” They said Hendricks's insatiable appetite for knowledge astounded them all and challenged anyone to find another centenarian who was as up-to-date on current affairs as she is. “Your ability to effortlessly break into conversation around the issues of the day keeps us entertained and on our toes. You devour literature voraciously and, true to your nature, impart knowledge without any expectation of exchange. “Age has done nothing to wear down your faith.”