This was the fourth alleged arson attack on trains in less than a month, and the total costs of all four incidents might cost Metrorail more than R19 million. Firefighters were initially blocked from dousing the fire on three carriages at about 7.20pm. Police had to escort them so that they could extinguish the fire, according to Theo Layne of  the City’s Fire and Rescue service. “The fire was extinguished at 9.53pm. No injuries were reported and the probable cause was protest related,” Layne said. Metrorail regional manager, Richard Walker, said: “The damaged carriages are taken to the depot for further investigation and assessment by Passenger Rail Agency of South Africa (Prasa) loss adjusters. The cause of the fire and estimate of damage will be assessed during post-incident investigations. In the interim, commuters are advised to find alternative transport as Metrorail regrettably has no buses to offer during peak periods. Buses are only available during off-peak hours - 10am to 2.30pm.” The recent Steenberg train fire would cost approximately R8m, another in Retreat was set at R5m and the Ottery blaze will cost R6 million. Metrorail spokesperson Zino Mihi said they were working with the police. “The temporary suspension of train services between Philippi and Chris Hani remains in place. Service recovery efforts have been delayed because contractors and technical staff have not been able to access the site due to continued service delivery protests,” Mihi said. Metrorail was forced to close the line between Nolungile and Nonkqubela in the interest of safe train operations because of the flooding in the area after the heavy rains. “The community in and around the rail reserve in their attempts to divert floodwater from their dwellings, dug channels that unfortunately deposited not just the rain water but also sewage and waste that had accumulated in the area into the rail reserve, submerging our rail track infrastructure,” Mihi said. Walker said they were monitoring the situation and would start clearing services as soon as the area was declared safe.