The campaign, Amber Alert, will increase awareness among vehicle drivers on the roads surrounding the industrial hub of Epping, as carthorses are particularly vulnerable there and the CHPA offices are also in the area. According to the City, there were two horse incidents on Baden Powell Drive and one at Mitchells Plain this week. “The injuries of the two horses resulted in their deaths. At Mitchells Plain a car collided with a horse and cart transporting children to the beach on Sunday. The children were all okay, but it was feared the horse had to be put down because of its injuries. ‘‘However, brilliant work by the SPCA’s veterinary surgeon managed to save the horse’s life after it was admitted for emergency surgery. “Motorists are urged to be on the lookout for horses and other animals on the road,” Wayne Dyason said. CHPA  said Amber, one of the two horses that were killed, was hit by a truck just around the block from their offices. “A normal morning at our clinic ended in heartbreak for our staff members and the owner of the horse. ‘‘She (Amber) got a fright and jumped into the next lane of traffic, and the passing truck  - because he didn’t slow down when he saw the horse on the road - hit her. ‘‘She suffered multiple 
fractures and had to be  humanely euthanised. We decided to dedicate this campaign to her name. Amber has now become the inspiration for the campaign to prevent another tragic incident.” CHPA staff and carthorse owners and drivers will hand out stickers to vehicle drivers to increase awareness of horses on the roads, especially now that rain is decreasing visibility. “Carties can often be seen in the area as they visit our offices in Epping to get services, or drop off scrap  metal down the road. They also regularly visit the market, which is where Amber and her owner were returning from when 
tragedy struck. Horses are big and react with lighting speed. ‘‘They are and will forever remain flight animals, and even when they are accustomed to things such as traffic every day, their first instinct when encountering something they deem dangerous will always be to try to flee. “Horses can spook in the traffic and react unpredictably, making it imperative for other drivers to slow down when they pass a horse and cart. “Another point to take notice of is that horses need a lot more room to slow down and stop than cars with ABS brakes. ‘‘It is vital to give them enough room to stop, and not cut in front of them. According to the by-laws in Cape Town, animal-drawn vehicles actually have right of way.” The CHPA say they deal with horse-related complaints from the public in various shapes and forms on most days. “We rely on the general public to report issues with working horses as much as, if not more than, our own staff. “We are simply not able to be everywhere at once, and without people letting us know if there is a problem, we would not know and wouldn’t be able to respond as needed.” To report accidents involving horses, call 0826 599 599.