Emotions ran high during a public meeting regarding the renaming of Cape Town International Airport on Monday and it had to be called off eventually when it descended into chaos. About 1 500 people had gathered at the airport. There was strong support from the EFF for the renaming of the airport after late Struggle hero Winnie Madikizela-Mandela. On the other hand, members of the Khoi community were advocating for it to be named after Krotoa, a historic Khoi figure. When a speaker from the floor reportedly called for the "Khoisan heritage to take first preference or there will be war", the meeting had to be called off after order couldn't be restored. Wednesday is the deadline for members of the public to voice their opinions and make proposals on the Airports Company South Africa's (Acsa's) renaming of the airport, under the Transformation of Heritage Landscape Government Programme. Aside from Cape Town International Airport, East London Airport, Port Elizabeth International Airport and Kimberley Airport are also to be renamed. An adviser to the Griqua Royal House, Peter Marais, said Krotoa was the mother of all Khoi descendants and should be honoured. Krotoa was the niece of Autshumato, a Khoi leader and interpreter to the Dutch. When she was between 10 or 11 years old, Krotoa was taken in by Jan van Riebeeck during the first few days of Dutch settlement in the Cape, and she worked as a servant to his wife, Maria van Riebeeck. Marais said Krotoa’s death on Robben Island was a sacrifice to the Khoi people. “She has the biggest connection to the Cape,” Marais added. Musician Camillo Lombard was also at the airport and said it was great that people were showing their support for the issue. “It’s very exciting,” said Lombard, who wants the airport named after Krotoa. Minister of Arts and Culture Nathi Mthethwa is responsible for the approval of geographical names after receiving recommendations from the South African Geographical Names Council. The council is responsible for geographical features of national concern, including towns, cities, suburbs and any form of human settlement, post offices, stations, highways, airports and government dams. The Department of Transport and Airports Company South Africa will implement the official names as soon as possible once the names have been approved by the minister, they will be published in the Government Gazette. Proposals and comments may be sent by email to corporate.affairs@airports.co.za or delivered by hand to the Acsa office at the nearest airport.  francesca.villette@inl.co.za 