The State wants Nkololo convicted of raping and murdering 5-year-old D. It also wants the court to reject Nkololo’s version of his whereabouts on the day Iyapha was killed because he kept changing his explanation. The State called 19 witnesses in its case. Seven of those were with regards to another alleged rape of a 8-year-old and 12 for the counts relating to Iyapha’s rape and murder. Iyapha’s body was found on May 1 last year in a plastic bag after her family had reported her missing the previous day. Nkololo was taken in as a suspect two weeks later. While in custody it emerged that he was charged for another rape incident involving the  8-year-old, which allegedly happened six weeks before the murder of Iyapha. Prosecutor Thabo Ntela submitted that the evidence of State witnesses should be accepted and was satisfactory and reliable in the case of the 8-year-old. “They gave evidence in a logical manner and answered all the questions truthfully,” Ntela argued. In relation to the alleged rape of Iyapha, Ntela said the witnesses did not seek to falsely implicate Nkololo. He changed his version of events during cross-examination with regards to what he did on the day Iyapha disappeared, according to Ntela. Ntela said Nkololo evaded answering simple questions by giving long answers. His version differed from what was put to the State witnesses in certain instances and he maintained that the “State witnesses who testified lied and he was the only one telling the truth”. “He selectively remembered the parts of his evidence that are not incriminating. “At the same time he conveniently could not remember when the answers he was to give were to be incriminating to him,” said Ntela. Nkololo’s lawyer Susanna Kunn said Ntela did not prove that a confession the accused made met the requirements as set in the Criminal Procedure Act and should not be allowed as admissible evidence to be used against him. “Why did the police persist with questioning the accused after he indicated he wants to use his rights to remain silent?” asked Kunn.