The 72-year-old former academic and maths professor leaves behind his wife Judy-Anne Persens, 70, his son and two daughters, and three grandchildren. A memorial service will be held at the Uniting Reformed Church in Belhar today at 7.30pm. In 2017, Persens, along with with former UWC chancellor Archbishop Emeritus Desmond Tutu, received the Special Recognition Award from UWC during the the annual Chancellor’s Outstanding Alumni Awards for his exemplary service to the university. Speaking on behalf of the family, Greg van Schalkwyk said: “The professor fell, injuring his hip and he passed away in Panorama hospital after developing complications from his injuries. “His family remain strong and the countless messages of support truly show the mark he made in education and the lives of people. ’*  groot Ceder het geval (a giant cedar tree has fallen),” Van Schalkwyk said. Persens joined UWC in January 1973 as a lecturer in mathematics until he left the department in 1989, before taking up the post of UWC’s director of international relations. This is a position he had held until his retirement. The university’s alumni said: “His life speaks to one of a remarkable servant leader, always connected to the community and society of which he was part - whether it was being a member of the university’s council and senate or part of the Uniting Reformed Church’s fund-raising committee. “Professor Persens made significant contributions not only to our institution but also to our country and continent.” His son Ricardo paid tribute to his father on Facebook. “We will forever remember June 2, 2018 as the day we lost our dear father and husband from this earthly realm. But we celebrate a life well lived. “We can’t but smile just thinking about this tremendously blessed life gifted by the Almighty. Thank you to all the messages of support we missed today. Thank you to all the thousands of people who crossed my Father’s path and enriched his life. “Young and old you inspired him and brightened his life. He loved education and the 
process. He loved seeing people meet and even exceed their potential. So unselfish in sharing his wisdom he knew it was his small gift to his Maker for a blessed life.”