The principal of Suurbraak Primary, Burton Beukes, and senior school inspector for the Overberg District, subject adviser Basil Sukoor, will appear before a joint disciplinary panel. As chairperson of the Suurbraak Civic Association, Beukes had been at the forefront of the activism when the protest began in Suurbraak in May last year. Beukes and Sukoor have been advised by the South African Democratic Teachers Union (Sadtu) representative not to comment on the matter. According to the representative, Jacques Adams, the complaints originate from the Office of Swellendam’s mayor, Nicholas Myburgh, against the two members stemming from a decision to close Beukes’ school on May 31. Last year the Suurbraak community took to the streets and occupied land in the Main Street to protest the lack of response from the municipality to their grievances around housing and service delivery. Mawubuye Lands Rights Movement member and Suurbraak resident Reinette Heunis said there was a political influence and the community were initially denied consent to picket, but warned the authorities they would gather regardless. “We are determined to stand in solidarity and support the two teachers. “How can teachers or educators be criminalised for being involved in community structures and community issues? ‘‘We look up to them and respect them as teachers and as the principal, that is why we elected them to speak for us and represent our interests. “The WCED is trying to silence them and silence us by victimising them in this way," she said. Heunis said the action against Beukes was harassment aimed at destroying the civic movement in their town. WCED spokesperson Bronagh Hammond said she could not comment on the charges as the case was yet to be heard. “We can confirm that the principal at Suurbraak Primary School, and a district subject adviser, are scheduled to face a disciplinary hearing tomorrow (today). ‘‘The charges follow an investigation into a complaint from various sources, including the mayor (Myburgh),” she said. Hammond said the department would allow the formal disciplinary process to take its course.  dominic.adriaanse@inl.co.za 