Evans, a women and child protection activist and founder of the organisation Philisa Abafazi Bethu (Heal Our Women), said receiving the accolade was overwhelming. “I had to hold back my emotions when I received this award by an organisation run by volunteers. Often you think your work goes unnoticed but then this happens. My heart is full and it is all gratitude,” she said. The MPCF was born of a tragic incident when 11-year-old Stacha Arendse went missing during March last year and was found raped and murdered on a soccer field in Tafelsig, Mitchells Plain. Randy Tango pleaded guilty to sexually assaulting and murdering Stacha and received three life terms in the Western Cape High Court earlier this year. The organisation also received a runner-up prize for a national award by HomeChoice retailer for the impact it had made in the community. Evans said on the sidelines of the launch event that she was still disturbed by another case of an alleged paedophile. “It was as if Stacha was reaching out to me from the beyond to validate me, and that was something special to me. “Receiving that award was symbolic to me and was basically meant to tell me that this fight is not over,” she said. Evans said the work of the MPCF had to be recognised by the authorities. “These organisations need the support of our authorities and relationships have to be built. “We are again in the holiday season when many children might be left without adult supervision and this is when predators know to attack. We have to build strong partnerships to avoid this from happening,” she said. Evans received the award along with fellow activist Ashley Potts, who focuses on substance and drug abuse awareness and rehabilitation. Potts echoed the sentiments of Evans, saying he greatly valued the award. “This is an award I will surely treasure and hold as a reminder of the privilege of being able to serve communities who own their space. I am humbled and thankful to the Mitchells Plain Crisis Forum. “May you continue to be the blessing you are,” Potts said. MPCF chairperson Henry Arends said they were proud that their launch was successful and had plans for the future to establish crisis forums across the peninsula. “We are glad that people are now aware that there is a crisis forum that they can come to. We are intent on building strong relationships with authorities and other partnerships. “We are currently setting up awareness programmes at primary schools in various communities extending outside of MItchells Plain. “Our vision is to grow it to such an extent that we can have a Western Cape Crisis Forum,” he said.