He delivered a keynote address as he officiated over the Military Skills Development System (MSDS) passing out parade on SAS Saldanha on Friday. This marked the culmination of training for 146 young men and women which began in January. The training was meant to facilitate the transition from civilian life into the military and these sailors would now commence with the second phase of the MSDS programme where they would be assigned specific mustering (professions) for functional training and be utilised in various fields within the SA Navy. Hlongwane said that the programme was one that he truly believed empowers the youth and affords them the opportunity to “Live the Legacy: Towards a Socio-Economically Empowered Youth” - this year’s theme for youth month. “From its inception, the programme has grown and developed, and its results have been extremely encouraging, both to the Department of Defence and to the broader society in which we live. “This programme makes, among others, provision for young men and women to be equipped with key skills in the fields of information technology, financial management and language within the disciplined ethos of a professional military in a democracy,” he said. To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. Hlongwane urged the graduates not be “side-tracked or derailed” from the path they were on as they were now well conversant with the military way of life and to remain disciplined. He extended his appreciation to the commanding officer, SAS Saldanha Captain Sikhumbuzo Msikinya and his team of instructors and support staff for their excellent job in moulding the young men and women of the programme. “Men and women on parade, you stand on the threshold of an exciting future, a future which holds endless possibilities. Serving one’s country is perhaps the greatest privilege accorded any citizen but, it comes with a significant obligation. ‘‘It means that we are committed to an ethos which demands of each of us to willingly and knowingly place the objectives of the organisation above those of our own and, in some cases, place the lives of others above our own,” he said. Hlongwane reminded the cadets that service of one’s country was a great privilege and also comes with great personal sacrifice that sets them apart from the rest of society.