The implant will only replace damaged parts of the knee in osteoarthritis patients, instead of the whole knee. This forms part of his 
doctorate in mechatronic engineering. The programme will automatically create an implant for specific patients. Van der Merwe is a lecturer in the department of mechanical and mechatronic engineering and a member of the Biomedical Engineering Research Group in the same department. For his doctorate, he focused on developing a repeatable, semi-automated method of generating patient-specific implant components that reproduce an individual’s healthy anatomy to facilitate natural joint movement after an operation. The implant design has been completed and will go into testing phase later this year. “I am quite satisfied with the design as is. I just need to test it to see if I can improve it. “Looking forward to seeing what we can achieve with this,” said Van der Merwe. People whose knees have been affected by osteoarthritis, also known as the “wear and tear” arthritis, often have to get knee implants to repair the damage. But if a knee implant does not fit the specific individual, it could lead to soft tissue damage, the collapsing of the underlying bone, loosening of the implant and an increased likelihood of joint pain after the operation. Van der Merwe said for localised osteoarthritis, surgical reconstruction or replacement of only the damaged part of the knee (unicompartmental knee arthroplasty) may be preferred over the replacement of the entire joint (total knee arthroplasty). “Replacing or repairing only the damaged part may result in faster recovery, improved postoperative joint movement, retains as much of the joint’s natural anatomy as possible and is done at a lower cost. “But designing patient-specific unicompartmental knee replacements ultimately relies on a technician’s interpretation and skill in order to consistently reproduce healthy knee shapes. “This is a difficult problem - what is considered healthy for one patient might not be the same for another.” Van der Merwe said there was often a mismatch between current standardised sizes of commercially available implants and the shape and form of an individual patient’s knee. Van der Merwe used this information to write a semi-automated design programme that fits smooth surfaces on to the estimated healthy shape to create implants ready for computer-assisted manufacturing. “To validate the shapes created by our implant design method, we performed the semi-automated design process on a set of test knees. “Our semi-automated approach to designing patient-specific unicompartmental knee replacements resulted in implants that compare favourably with the original, normal knees.” He said the design took him six years to complete and followed up from his previous doctoral thesis about implant design. For his final year undergraduate project, he looked at machines designed to test knee implants. Van der Merwe estimates it will only be ready for market release in five to 10 years time.  nicola.daniels@inl.co.za 