The parastatal said yesterday the power system would take up to 10 days to recover from the effects of the recent industrial action. Until then, the risk of load shedding remained high. “Load-shedding tip: think about your safety and communication by keeping your cellphone/laptop/tablet always fully charged when power is available and keep temporary lighting readily available. “Watch the World Cup at a pub or at a family or friend who is not on the day’s load-shedding schedule,” Eskom said. Eskom said the power system remained constrained yesterday, despite several units being returned to service. Unions and Eskom management are at loggerheads over whether to grant workers a salary increase of 15%. Members of the National Union of Mineworkers, the National Union of Metalworkers of SA and Solidarity downed tools last week and threatened a national shutdown if their demand for a salary increase was not met. The industrial action resulted in stage one load shedding. “The risk for load shedding remains high due to a shortage of capacity from the effects of the recent industrial action and will remain so in the coming week,” ESKOM has advised people to watch Soccer World Cup games at a pub, or at a family or friend who is not on the day’s load-shedding schedule. The parastatal said yesterday the power system would take up to 10 days to recover from the effects of the recent industrial action. Until then, the risk of load shedding remained high. “Load-shedding tip: think about your safety and communication by keeping your cellphone/laptop/tablet always fully charged when power is available and keep temporary lighting readily available. “Watch the World Cup at a pub or at a family or friend who is not on the day’s load-shedding schedule,” Eskom said. Eskom said the power system remained constrained yesterday, despite several units being returned to service. Unions and Eskom management are at loggerheads over whether to grant workers a salary increase of 15%. Members of the National Union of Mineworkers, the National Union of Metalworkers of SA and Solidarity downed tools last week and threatened a national shutdown if their demand for a salary increase was not met. The industrial action resulted in stage one load shedding. “The risk for load shedding remains high due to a shortage of capacity from the effects of the recent industrial action and will remain so in the coming week,” ESKOM has advised people to watch Soccer World Cup games at a pub, or at a family or friend who is not on the day’s load-shedding schedule. The parastatal said yesterday the power system would take up to 10 days to recover from the effects of the recent industrial action. Until then, the risk of load shedding remained high. “Load-shedding tip: think about your safety and communication by keeping your cellphone/laptop/tablet always fully charged when power is available and keep temporary lighting readily available. “Watch the World Cup at a pub or at a family or friend who is not on the day’s load-shedding schedule,” Eskom said. Eskom said the power system remained constrained yesterday, despite several units being returned to service. Unions and Eskom management are at loggerheads over whether to grant workers a salary increase of 15%. Members of the National Union of Mineworkers, the National Union of Metalworkers of SA and Solidarity downed tools last week and threatened a national shutdown if their demand for a salary increase was not met. The industrial action resulted in stage one load shedding. “The risk for load shedding remains high due to a shortage of capacity from the effects of the recent industrial action and will remain so in the coming week,” ESKOM has advised people to watch Soccer World Cup games at a pub, or at a family or friend who is not on the day’s load-shedding schedule. The parastatal said yesterday the power system would take up to 10 days to recover from the effects of the recent industrial action. Until then, the risk of load shedding remained high. “Load-shedding tip: think about your safety and communication by keeping your cellphone/laptop/tablet always fully charged when power is available and keep temporary lighting readily available. “Watch the World Cup at a pub or at a family or friend who is not on the day’s load-shedding schedule,” Eskom said. Eskom said the power system remained constrained yesterday, despite several units being returned to service. Unions and Eskom management are at loggerheads over whether to grant workers a salary increase of 15%. Members of the National Union of Mineworkers, the National Union of Metalworkers of SA and Solidarity downed tools last week and threatened a national shutdown if their demand for a salary increase was not met. The industrial action resulted in stage one load shedding. “The risk for load shedding remains high due to a shortage of capacity from the effects of the recent industrial action and will remain so in the coming week,”