About 10 taxi drivers were killed in Nyanga and Khayelitsha on one weekend. Two suspects, aged 39 and 45, were arrested in Gugulethu in connection with a Wynberg shooting and two unlicensed firearms were seized. Police said the two licensed firearms were confiscated at the weekend and five minibus taxis were impounded. Fines were issued to the value of R262 000, and 185 people and 
152 vehicles were searched. Police spokesperson Noloyiso Rwexana said: “The two firearms will be sent for ballistic testing to check if they are not linked to the taxi violence which claimed the lives of many people.” Yesterday, Congress of Democratic Taxi Associations (Codeta) secretary-general Andile Khanyi said he was not aware of any taxi of their members being impounded. Codeta is the only taxi organisation operating in Khayelitsha. “This is my first time hearing this and if taxis were impounded and guns seized, I should have been alerted as usual. Yes, the association is big, but every member accounts and reports to me as secretary-general. If it did happen, then it must have been another association,” Khanyi said. He confirmed a meeting was scheduled today between the National Department of Transport, the City and Codeta. On Sunday, taxi drivers announced they were gearing up to down tools. This comes after a contract dispute following the extension of a route. Most JV shareholders, including Golden Arrow Bus Service and Route 6 Taxi Association in Mitchells Plain, agreed to extend the operating contract with the City, and therefore the N2 Express service will continue. Codeta, however, has refused to support the extension of the operating contract. “We are hoping that the meeting will be fruitful as national is intervening. The City has not indicated whether it will meet our demands but it wants to solve the problem. “We don’t want to cease services as commuters will be the worst affected. We have seen how bus commuters suffered as they were stranded for almost a month. Should our demands be resolved, we will not see a need to protest,” Khanyi said. Mayco member for transport Brett Heron said the City had been trying to engage with Codeta with little success. MEC for Transport Donald Grant condemned Codeta for threatening to cause chaos across the city. “They must 
follow the necessary legal procedure and not intimidate other members,” he said.