Seven of those were  killed in two separate fires in Khayelitsha and Philippi on Friday and Saturday. This has prompted deep concern from President Cyril Ramaphosa, who said the tragedy affected all South Africans, especially as the country marked Youth Month, during which the nation’s attention was focused on creating a 
better life for young people. His concern came as the eight family members killed, after they were trapped in their home after it caught fire in Khayelitsha early last month, were buried at Cofimvaba in the Eastern Cape on Saturday. “My prayers and thoughts  - and those of government and all South Africans - are directed to the families who have been affected by death and displacement at the Masiya settlement (in Philippi). “As government, we will do our best to assist the affected families. “We will also work with communities to promote safety measures at a time when many families use various forms of fuel and heating to keep warm,” said Ramaphosa. In relation to the five minors killed in Philippi on Saturday, police spokesperson FC van Wyk said an inquest case was being investigated. The four siblings, twins Lithemba and Lunje, Vukile, 14, and Siyahluma, 13, and their cousin Lunathi Tyhalani, 12, were trapped inside their home. Van Wyk said their mother, Margaret Tyhalani, sustained burn wounds and was taken to a nearby hospital with her eldest daughter, 19-year-old Nangamso Tyhalani. Nangamso told the Cape Times she had left her siblings before midnight, and about 30 minutes later she heard Margaret screaming for help. When she went to check what was going on, she saw the smoke and flames. Nangamso said all her siblings were trapped inside their home despite residents’ 
desperate efforts to douse the fire. “The flames were too high and nothing could be done as the fire spread very quickly. “It was bubbly (atmosphere) and we were in good vibes before I left and we were laughing, cracking jokes. ‘‘All that happiness has changed to sadness,” said Nangamso.