The Department of Justice and Constitutional Development said applications for the 2019 academic year should reach the department no later than September 30. Regulations relating to assistance to victims came into operation on November 7, 2014, to provide assistance to qualifying TRC victims, their relatives and dependants. Department spokesperson Steve Mahlangu said applicants qualifying for basic education would receive educational assistance for Grades R to 12 for payment of school and boarding fees, uniforms and transport. In terms of higher education and training, assistance would be provided for three years for adult education and training, while for further education and training the duration of assistance would differ depending on the nature of the studies. He said higher education assistance would be given for five years, with assistance for skills development differing depending on the nature of a victim’s studies. He said the assistance covered registration fees, boarding, textbooks, transport and meal allowances and a once-off allowance not exceeding R65 000 for settlement of outstanding debt. Mahlangu said the regulations were in the process of being amended further to provide for uncapped amounts of tuition fees and financial assistance to students with disabilities. Advocate Dumisa Ntsebeza who had been one of the commissioners led by Archbishop Emeritus Desmond Tutu in the TRC, said he and fellow commissioners had been making recommendations for assistance to apartheid victims since 1998. Mahlangu advised eligible candidates wishing to apply to consult the regulations for the various categories of assistance. The regulations and application forms are available on the department’s website at: www.justice.gov.za Enquiries could be directed to TRCeducation@justice.gov.za or faxed to 0864763777. Applications could also be sent via registered post to: The Head: TRC Unit, the Department of Justice and Constitutional Development, Private Bag X81, Pretoria, 0001. Cape Times