This was confirmed by forensic analyst Luthando Tiya on Thursday when he testified at the Western Cape High Court. Samples tested at the forensic lab included a top, jeans, a vaginal vault swab and a right-thigh swab. DNA testing found a full profile match for Saunders from DNA extracted from Courtney’s top, Tiya said. “DNA is a molecule found in the cells of the body and acts as a biological fingerprint. “No two people can have the same DNA, except if they are identical twins. DNA is the same throughout the body no matter where a sample comes from.” Tiya said the likelihood of finding a DNA match is one in more than a few trillion. According to the expert witness, after semen extraction protocols were done, which are used in cases of sexual assault, Saunders’s DNA was found on jeans which were “bloody at the crotch area”, and a top which tested positive with his DNA. Tiya explained that through rigorous DNA testing, 16 areas have to be checked for a full DNA profile to be reported. “Semen was found on the top and it was that of the accused (Saunders). Nowhere is there a mismatch.” Tiya said a right-thigh swab, obtained from Courtney, had been tested for semen. “This tested positive for possible semen. This matched a full profile belonging to a single individual or single donor,” he said. During cross-examination Mornay Callitz asked Tiya if the semen found on the victim could be that of pre-ejaculatory fluid. Tiya disputed this, saying: “We do not test for pre-ejaculatory fluid. We test for semen. We would not get DNA from pre-ejaculatory fluid as it does not contain sperm cells,” he said. Saunders, in his plea explanation, said he killed Courtney due to “compounded ill feelings” for her mother and because he was irritated that she had woken him for a second time to watch TV in his room. Courtney was forced to drink ant poison by the alleged rapist and killer. Before disposing of Courtney’s body, Saunders said he pulled down her denim shorts and panties before penetrating her with his fingers. The matter is to resume on Tuesday. Cape Times