Spinners and motorsport heads of Lentegeur in Mitchells Plain are pop-a-wheeling their ways into the hearts of underprivileged residents in the community. Local racer and spinner Jonathan Schaffers said about a month ago residents asked him to come on board to work on a feeding scheme initiative that would also impact positively on the youth in the area. “As racers, we are an inspiration to the youth in our area and when I was asked by residents to come up with an initiative that would keep our children safe over weekends, I agreed because I realise the need in our community. I rallied a few people in the motor sport industry that also live in Mitchells Plain. “They immediately jumped at the opportunity to be a part of this project and we have received donations and sponsorships from role-players in our community and from outside the motoring industry to help. "We want to take this initiative and, with its positive impact, request that the spot where we currently hand out food on a weekly basis be earmarked as a space for spinners to practise their sport legally and at the same time keep children and our youth off the streets,” he said. Schaffers said they hope to build partnerships with authorities to earmark it as a space where the feeding scheme can continue for years to come. “Our primary focus is the feeding scheme because we have underprivileged people in Lentegeur who will benefit positively from this. We would like authorities to come forward and support this initiative and allow us to use the space for legal motoring events,” Schaffers said. Events co-ordinator Shahiem Bell said he was contacted by Schaffers to assist with the successful implementation of the feeding scheme. “Currently the spinning sport does not have a place they can call home and this is due to the negative stigma attached to it, but with this we show motoring heads are about more than just shredding tyres. "We would like to see this space become a legal pitch for spinners to practise the sport and more importantly reaching out to a community in need,” Bell said. Another Lentegeur resident and well-known name in the motoring fraternity, Zain Ryland, said they were excited to be part of the initiative. “It is unfortunate that our youth are faced with social ills, but we want to turn that around. We would rather have our children and youth look away from the guy running with a gun and look instead to the guy with the car as a role model,” he said.  chevon.booysen@inl.co.za 