The march,  headed by the Knysna Taxi Forum, saw about 200 taxis moving through the Eden District town as the members delivered memorandums to the police commissioner, state prosecutor and newly elected Mayor Mark Willemse. Knysna Taxi Forum secretary Mandla Tyololo  said that the forum was supported by the community as they were from, and operated within, these communities. “We marched today because we live in these communities that do not have toilets, roads are in poor condition and, after more than a decade of talking, things remain in a mess. ‘‘As citizens of this town we do not want to fight with our officials, but there remains poor service by the police in attending to public complaints and abuse of public and taxi drivers by traffic officers,” he said. Tyololo said that they had given the officials 14 days to respond to their demands. Their memorandum included demands such as clean and safe public toilets, security at taxi ranks, and the construction of pick-up and drop-off zones. Grievances to the police and state prosecutor included the withdrawal of reported cases without consulting with the complainants and granting bail to the accused of serious cases without knowledge of complainants and the family members concerned. Residents and activists who joined the march included Sharon Dreyer, who said those in power did not seem to take notice. “And that sort of arrogance does not win votes.” Southern Cape police spokesperson Captain Malcolm Pojie said: “No incidents were reported and the participants in the march handed over their memorandums to the Knysna Police, national prosecuting authority and municipality. ‘‘The memorandum indicated actions should be taken against matters such as construction of speed bumps and crime, especially sexual offences such as rape and bail granted to the accused,” he said. Knysna mayor Willemse said that he had accepted the memorandum on behalf of the municipality and would  respond within 14 working days. “We take their concerns very seriously as the taxi industry is a vital cog in Knysna as we do not have a public transport system. ‘‘We will discuss the matter within our power and will   address and engage the organisation and communities in due course,” he said.