The 29-year-old suspect appeared in the Hermanus Magistrate’s Court this week following his rearrest after evidence of a cheek swab result from the Forensic Science Laboratory linked him to 11 rapes. The alleged rapist was arrested by Hermanus police on March 4 in the vicinity of an old dumping site known as the “MOP”. It was there that from September 2015 until March 2018, a suspected rapist had been operating in Zwelihle. Police spokesperson FC van Wyk said that during March 2016, the dockets were handed over to its serial and electronic crimes investigations unit for further investigation. “By that time there were five cases with the same modus operandi and all the cases were linked with the same DNA. “According to the victims, an unknown male in his mid- to late-twenties approached them while they are walking alone, then forces them - mostly with a knife - to walk to a deserted area, where they are robbed and raped,” Van Wyk said. “In most cases, the suspect had a balaclava or stocking over his face, which made identity of the suspect very difficult.” He said more cases were reported in the same month. On March 4, police spotted the suspect near the MOP and arrested him. “The suspect was detained at Hermanus police station for the last rape case and was found in possession of a balaclava, a stocking, a knife and a roll of toilet paper. "Due to a lack of evidence, he was subsequently released. Fortunately a buccal (cheek) swab was taken and the DNA result linked the suspect to 11 cases,” he said. The suspect was arrested and appeared in court on 
Monday. He will remain in custody until his next appearance on June 4. Zwelihle resident Gcobani Ndzongana said: “Our community were caught in the drama of our land protest, but we knew this person was here doing this despicable thing. “There were talks from certain members of our community who were prepared to track him down ourselves, if the police had not done so themselves. “His release because of a lack of evidence had angered us, but now we are elated that this man is behind bars.” The community are preparing to march to court in support of the victims when the suspect appears next week, and will also oppose bail being granted, he added.