This is according to Lorna 
Daniels, ex-wife of former trade unionist and former Western Cape head of the 
Commission for Conciliation Mediation and Arbitration Ronald “Bernie” Bernickow. He died on June 26 last 
year after a long battle with cancer. Daniels said the lecture was hosted by the Cornerstone Institute, the Ronald Bernickow Education Development Trust, the SA Clothing and
Textile Workers Union (Sactwu) and the Cape Cultural Collective community organisation. Former MP and deputy chairperson of the Human Rights Commission and 
former trade unionist Pregs Govender is the key speaker at the event (from 7pm). Daniels said Sactwu and Hosken Consolidated Investments Holdings’ decision to establish the development trust last year and award the bursaries tonight had been warmly welcomed by Bernickow’s family and friends. “The two bursaries will be awarded to students interested in pursuing media 
studies, because Bernie was very positive about the impact of the media, which he felt played a powerful role in 
contributing to the South Africa we envision. “The family views the memorial lecture and 
bursaries as a continuation of
Bernie’s work, which he
conducted around the principles of inclusive development. “As such, we view this as an opportunity to continue to build on the contribution that Bernie and his generation has made. “We haven’t decided on the value of the bursaries, but we are looking at more than 
providing financial support to the bursary recipients. “The trust hopes that these bursaries will continue to strengthen the role of the media, make a difference to the life of a family, enhance the voices of our communities and ultimately drive our shared vision for equality and a better life for all,” said Daniels. Cornerstone Institute chief executive Noel Daniels said: “Cornerstone Institute recognises the immense 
contribution of Bernie to peace, education, prosperity and a life of dignity for all South Africans.” The lecture recognises the contribution of Bernie and people such as him, who are always willing to help those in need, those who build stronger communities and workplaces. “Bernie is one of the unsung heroes of our democracy to whom we will be 
forever grateful. As Cornerstone we are delighted and honoured to host the memorial lecture of Bernie,” said Noel Daniels. Bernickow started work at the age of 16 as a messenger for the Cape Argus at Newspaper House in Cape Town, where he helped organise newspaper sellers, workers and journalists into trade unions such as the Media Workers Association of SA in the 1980s.  raphael.wolf@inl.co.za 