This comes a month after the National Prosecuting Authority (NPA) secured life imprisonment for another criminal who killed a police officer. NPA spokesperson Eric Ntabazalila said they welcomed the life imprisonment and 75 years direct imprisonment of Athen­kosi Mdluli for the murder of Mziwonke Siwisa, who was based at the Cape Town Sea Point Border Unit. The court also sentenced Xolani Ndesi to life imprisonment and 45 years’ direct imprisonment, and Jackson Mhobo to life imprisonment and 15 years. The court ordered that all the terms meted out to all the accused run concurrently with the life imprisonment sentence. “The killing of police officers and the impact this has on the immediate family of the deceased, the SAPS, the community in general and South Africa as a whole ran through the sentencing procedures yesterday,” Ntabazalila said. “Advocate Pulane Thaiteng called the head of detectives in the province, Vela Jerome Cele, to testify about the killing of police officers in the province as part of aggravation of sentence.” The court heard that 11 officers had been killed in the 2016/17 and 2017/18  financial years. “Six of them were on duty, and five were off duty. "Five firearms were taken during the robberies, and they have not been traced. "Eighteen arrests have been made, with six cases solved,” Cele had testified. Cele told the court that most police officers were killed for their service firearms, which were then used to commit further crimes such as robberies, house robberies, business robberies, attempted murder and murder. Ntabazalila said: “The motive for Siwisa’s killing was no different to the trend explained by Cele. Siwisa was killed at 5am on December 12, 2016, while on his way to work. "He came across three men, all aged 21 years at the time, who were coming back from a crime spree in the Kraaifontein area. “Earlier that night they had attempted to hijack a vehicle, but were unsuccessful. "They stole a vehicle and drove around Kraaifontein. "When it ran out of petrol, they parked it in the yard of the local mechanic and walked back to Bloekombos. "When they were walking down Ngculu Street in Wallace­dene, they saw the victim and decided to rob him,” Ntabazalila said.