Residents were up in arms on Sunday searching every house they were informed sold drugs. The community leaders alleged that among the houses fingered by residents was that of councillor Connie Tafu-Nwonkwo. It infuriated them and they set it alight to send a “strong message” . Community leader Gcobani Ndzongana said they had formed crime fighting operations to take back their streets after residents accused them of neglecting crime. “The level of crime in our communities was starting to get out of hand. Young children are using drugs. To feed their habit they break into houses. “As leaders we were accused by residents of looking the other way when it comes to crime. We had a meeting and decided to form neighbourhood watch. We also informed the community of crime operations where we search houses for drugs and hand the dealers to police and requested every street has a WhatsApp group. “Around 7pm (on Sunday) we searched eight houses. When we went to the councillor’s house she ran away and bumped a child while speeding off. Her husband ran first. “It is shocking and disappointing to discover that among those who are destroying our community with drugs, is the husband of a councillor.” Ndzongana said it was clear that residents were traumatised by drug dealers and criminals. “This reflected in their anger and justifiable action of torching the house. We will continue chasing drug dealers and criminals out of our communities.” Tafu-Nwonkwo, who is also the Overberg ANCYL co-ordinator rejected claims that her husband was a drug dealer or that she bumped a child while driving away. “These are all lies. My husband buys damaged cars and sells them. I suspect jealousy because if he was a drug dealer why not report him to the police but instead burn my house. I left the house as I wanted to park my car elsewhere so they don’t damage it. “So I drove to the police and asked to be accompanied to my house. I am hurt and disappointed by the community. I am staying with a friend now in another area,” Tafu-Nwonkwo said. Overberg police commander Brigadier Donovan Heilbron said: “At no stage can any community take the law into their own hands. Vigilantism is a crime and something we cannot condone. It is good that the community start their crime fighting operations to assist the police but this behaviour we condemn.”