This year’s theme is “preventing plastic pollution and encouraging solutions for a healthy ocean”. Samsa have been charged with the International Convention for the Prevention of Pollution from Ships (Marpol), which covers prevention of pollution of the marine environment by ships from operational or accidental causes. It is a treaty adopted by the International Maritime Organisation (IMO) to prevent and minimise pollution from shipping. Marpol addresses pollution by oil from ships; noxious liquid substances, such as chemicals, carried in bulk; harmful substances carried in packaged form; sewage discharges into the sea; and the disposal at sea of ship-
generated garbage. Sobantu Tilayi, the chief operating officer of Samsa, said: “People rely on shipping every single day as the most cost-effective and fuel-efficient way to transport essential raw materials, commodities and consumer goods. “Thus we have to make sure that shipping has a minimal negative impact on the ocean and atmospheric environment.” He said South Africa had a robust safety and pollution response framework and was a leader in much of the science and development associated with combating pollution on the continent. Tilayi said the IMO had already adopted mandatory measures aimed at reducing pollution. Samsa believes that a safe, sustainable and competitive transportation framework is essential to Africa’s prosperity and competitiveness in the shipping sector, which accounts for 90% of goods transported around the world. “This must be achieved in a sustainable manner that respects the importance of the ocean. We are poised to ensure waterways are managed safely and effectively, and to establish low-impact trade corridors on the land and the sea that enable international and domestic trade safely and efficiently,” said Tilayi. Meanwhile, the Cape Peninsula University of Technology   research chair in oceans economy, Professor Ken Findlay, said the reality of plastic pollution in the ocean was shocking when seen far from land. “When you encounter 
plastic in the mid-ocean, miles from land or in the Antarctic seas, then the problem of plastic pollution really shocks. “We all have heard the terms 'sea level rise' and 'global warming' thrown at us. But the reality is that 
the oceans absorb a great deal of the carbon that goes into the atmosphere, and that becomes carbonic acid,” 
Findlay pointed out. Samsa will have an exhibition promoting safe seas and clean oceans at the Transnet Cruise Terminal (Durban Harbour) today, hosted by the Department of Environmental Affairs.