The home goes back more than 60 years, having been started by a community worker, Christine Revell, to care for young unwed mothers and later transformed into a children’s home and place of safety for babies and small children and named after Revell. The children on Friday had a day filled with fun activities, including a jumping castle, swings, face painting, play dough activities, an area with soft toys and a bubble machine. The two NGOs play a crucial part in children’s early development and the aim of the event was to celebrate these children. Christine Revell Children’s Home’s Mathilda Ruiters said: “The children were so happy that their faces lit up when they saw the jumping castle and the bubble machine, and each of them were excited to have his/her face painted.” The children were each given a party pack and an age-appropriate South African book, courtesy of Book Dash. The Western Cape Department of Social Development has been commemorating national Child Protection Week (which ended yesterday) with a series of events under the theme “Child Protection is Everyone’s Responsibility”. At the launch of Child Protection Week last week in Pretoria, United Nations Social Policy and Child Protection chief Mayke Huijbregts said: “Only by standing up and being united can we combat the scourge of violence and create a safe home and school for every child so that all children can grow up without feeling scared and unsafe.” Yesterday Social Development MEC Albert Fritz donated 140 sanitary pad packs in Laingsburg and Beaufort West. He said access to sanitary pads made a difference in the lives of girls, including ensuring they stayed in school and had dignity. Meanwhile, the Spirituality Media Charity in partnership with the NGO Childline held an anti-bullying workshop event for Parow Inclusive 
Primary School pupils on Friday. The event was part of the Child Protection Month which started on the same day. Organisers said the focus of the event was educating the pupils about how dangerous the act of bullying can be, not only on its victim but also to the personality of the perpetrator. The Spirituality Media Charity, together with Childline, will be closing the 2018 Child Protection month with another workshop on June 25.