The family of slain train driver Piet Botha has hailed the effective 25-year jail terms given to his two murderers. Botha’s widow, Tanya Botha, said she was relieved the court case was over. “Nothing will bring my husband and father of our two children back, but this sentence will prevent the murderers doing the same to another family. “Nobody deserves what we have been through since the sole provider of my family was murdered on duty.” Botha was ambushed while waiting for a train in Netreg stations  on July 16, 2016. He was on a refresher course where he trained new train drivers. Judge Mark Sher said Jatheme Hamid, 18, and Dorian Diedericks, 19, knew what they were doing when they committed the crime. Each received 20 years for murder, 12 years for robbery, eight years for possession of an unlicensed firearm, three years for aiding and abetting of three years forconcealing a firearm a firearm and two years for possession of illegal ammunition. Seven years of both the robbery and possession of a firearm sentence will run concurrently. Cedric Andrews, a third accused in the case, was sentenced to eight years for possession of an unlicensed firearm and two years for possession of illegal ammunition. He was not one of the murder accused. The His sentences will run concurrently. Addressing Diedericks, Judge Sher said: “It is quite clear that there is a connection between the gang and the this firearm, the gang boss and it seems as if this gun belonged to the gang. Neither of you took responsibility offor what you have done; you maintain your innocence.” Judge Sher said the The firearm used in the robbery and murder “was a kind of firearm that is used by security guards and military personnel”. “Of great concern to the court tThat such firearms are out there Ois of great concern to the court and in the possession of gangs and it is very well known to the court and community at large that gangs have been terrorising communities. There are shootings almost on a daily basis. It is still shocking to see the extent of violence, sexual assaults and robbery along the Cape Flats line.” Tanya said: “I will have to carry on without my life, without a partner, a partner of more than 20 years; where do you start, where do you go from here? “You have responsibility that you never had before, but I am trying to get used to it. It all takes time. The police did a great job. The Jjudge did a great job. My kids will have to live their life without a father,” she said. Metrorail Western Cape Rregional M manager Richard Walker said the judgment and sentencing sends out a strong message to criminals “who do not blink an eye when they commit such heinous crimes that forever destroys the lives of innocent people United National Transport Union (UNTU) general secretary Steve Harris said: “Too many lives have been lost, beaten, raped and assaulted on our railway lines that have become a warzone for those who have to work on it and to those who have no other alternative but to use trains, which is the cheapest form of transport in our country,” said Harris.  ”. since the sole provider of my family was murdered on duty.” Botha was ambushed while waiting for a train in Netreg station on July 16, 2016. He was on a refresher course where he trained new train drivers. Judge Mark Sher said Jatheme Hamid, 18, and Dorian Diedericks, 19, knew what they were doing when they committed the crime. Each received 20 years for murder, 12 years for robbery, eight years for possession of an unlicensed firearm, three years for concealing a firearm and two years for possession of illegal ammunition. Seven years of both the robbery and possession of a firearm sentence will run concurrently. Cedric Andrews, a third accused in the case, was sentenced to eight years for possession of an unlicensed firearm and two years for possession of illegal ammunition. He was not one of the murder accused. His sentences will run concurrently. Addressing Diedericks, Judge Sher said: “It is quite clear there is a connection between the gang and this firearm, the gang boss and it seems as if this gun belonged to the gang. Neither of you took responsibility for what you have done; you maintain your innocence.” The firearm used in the robbery and murder “was a kind of firearm that is used by security guards and military personnel”. “That such firearms are out there is of great concern to the court and in the possession of gangs and it is well known to the court and community at large that gangs have been terrorising communities. There are shootings almost on a daily basis. It is still shocking to see the extent of violence, sexual assaults and robbery along the Cape Flats line.” Tanya said: “I will have to carry on without my partner of more than 20 years; where do you start, where do you go from here? “You have responsibility that you never had before, but I am trying to get used to it. It all takes time. The police did a great job. The judge did a great job. My kids will have to live their life without a father,” she said. Metrorail Western Cape regional manager Richard Walker said the judgment and sentencing sends out a strong message to criminals “who do not blink an eye when they commit such heinous crimes that forever destroys the lives of innocent people”.