ANC chief whip in George Nomawethu Jantjies said: “The DA will table a motion of no confidence against the mayor at council. I will comment on the matter only after the conclusion of the motion and vote,” she said. This as the under-fire Eden district mayor faces further discipline by the DA’s federal legal commission. Naik was served charges by the DA for “amassing support for the ANC to place the opposition in a position to govern the George municipality”. Naik faced the ire of the party following his anti-gay comments that he did not approve of a performance by the Boston Gay Men’s Chorus, which was condemned by the DA’s Western Cape leader Bonginkosi Madikizela. George municipality spokesperson Chantel Edwards-Klose said: “The special council for June 21 has been called to deal with a compliance item which served at the adjourned ordinary council meeting of the May 31. This ordinary council meeting was adjourned after opposition parties left council resulting in no quorum. No additional items will be dealt with.” DA East Region head Jaco Londt would not comment on the matter and said all questions related to the  motion of no confidence must be addressed to the DA’s federal structures. DA federal executive chairperson James Selfe and his deputy, Natasha Mazzone, did not respond by deadline. DA provincial communications manager Odette Cason said the charge sheet against the George mayor would not be made public at this stage. Approached for comment the George mayor did not respond to messages and calls by deadline. Meanwhile, Knysna Mayor Mark Willemse said he had yet to receive formal charges from the DA, following his continued defiance of the party leadership to resign. Willemse was elected by the opposition following a motion of no confidence against his predecessor Eleanore Bouw-Spies, two weeks ago. In that time the party’s leadership had twice visited the town to pressure Willemse into stepping down. Cason said the party would not comment on the Knysna mayor’s matter.