The incident came less than a month after the education department offered a R10 000 reward for anyone with information about the spate of robberies at schools in recent weeks. The four teachers had just arrived for the day when five armed men entered the school premises and went to the parking lot where they forced two teachers out of their cars. One was hijacked while entering the school premises heading towards the parking. The incident was the fifth armed robbery at Cape Town schools. ACJ Phakade Primary School principal Thobile Majingo said the incident had forced the school to dismiss pupils early. “It was around 7.40am when the school was about to begin. Two of the five men hijacked the teacher, who drives a Toyota Fortuner. The rest went for three teachers who had small vehicles. One of the three teachers fought and refused to step out of her vehicle and the man only ran away with her car keys. ‘‘The atmosphere at school has been tense the entire day. I feel like this incident might have been prevented if we had a remote gate at the school and some security guards,” Majingo said. “The department is not proactive. They only act after an incident has happened. It’s easy for anyone to jump the school gate we currently have. We only received two security guards after this incident,” he said. Majingo said social workers from the district were sent to the school because it was reported that some pupils had witnessed the incident. “The teachers were all shaken, especially the one who refused to step out of her vehicle. I think she realised later how she had endangered her life. I don’t know if the teachers will be able to come tomorrow and teach. They are all scared,” Majingo said. Police spokesperson Captain FC van Wyk said cases of carjacking were registered for investigation after three cars – a Fortuner, Toyota Etios and a Hyundai – were taken by force from their owners at a primary school in Lwandle. “One vehicle was possibly recovered in Macassar by a Traffic Officer. Arrangements for counselling were made for the complainants. No arrests as yet.” Education MEC Debbie Schäfer said: “It is absolutely shocking that criminals are targeting innocent teachers.Thankfully no one was physically hurt during the incident. However, the educators involved, as well as those who witnessed the incident, are deeply traumatised. Counselling is being provided. Most of our schools have access control measures in place that would prevent criminals from entering our schools. “However, it has become evident that they are using the starting and closing times of schools to enter,  as this is when our school access points are open. I again appeal to anyone with information relating to the previous four attacks, and this one, to please come forward with information.” Members of the public with information pertaining to the following armed robberies can contact WCED Safe Schools toll-free hotline onat 0800 454 647.  okuhle.hlati@inl.co.za  Cape Times