Speaking on the sidelines of the land commission’s second-to-last stop, in Swellendam on Friday, an upbeat Shivambu said: “The public hearings on land are going very well and the majority of people who are making submissions have supported the amendment of the constitution in order to allow for expropriation of land without compensation. “The ANC’s reaction, through its president, is a capitulation to the demand of the people on the ground. “Prior to the public hearings, the ANC was wishy-washy; it was not clear in terms of whether they wanted to amend the constitution or not, but since the public hearings the ANC has come to surrender to the demand of the people, a demand that has been anchored by the EFF. “The constitution must be amended because it is one of the few across the world that speaks about payments and amounts. “So, it is now clear that ultimately we’re going to change the constitution to allow for expropriation of land without compensation.” Lewis Nzimande, co-chairperson of the joint constitutional review committee, differed with Shivambu, describing the responses as “balanced”. However, he said, there has been a low turnout from township residents so far in the Western Cape. He said he hoped townships would attend the land commission in Goodwood today. “The voices of workers and students in agriculture were quite prominent,” he said. “In the Western Cape public hearings, the No (submission) was almost quite significant.” DA MP Beverley Schäfer said it was clear yesterday that the ANC announcement had blunted the spirit of the land commission series. “I think there is a misconception that land expropriation without compensation will give everyone a piece of land and that’s not true.” Deidre Carter, Cope chief whip, said: “If we have a look at the (ANC) announcement, the president was totally out of order. “Number one, the process isn’t complete yet. “We still have a public hearing process (today) and we still have over 700 000 submissions to go through. He’s coming out and saying we’re going to change the constitution. That’s constitutionally incorrect.” Gerald Lemmetjies, a land claimant in Swellendam, said he had been ignored over the years, even though he had a title deed and his family had been removed. Weekend Argus