After two bodies of children were found on Thursday, Deputy Police Minister Bongani Mkongi has vowed that the police will ensure all culprits involved in the abduction of children are arrested. On Friday, Mkongi visited the scene along the N2 in Nyanga where the body of 2-year-old Oyingcwele Zokufa was found in a shallow grave in bushes, the SABC reported. Mkongi also visited Oyingcwele's family at the Nkandla informal settlement in Phillipi, where he broke into tears. Police have arrested a 32-year-old suspect in connection with the incident. The body of 9-year-old Previledge Mabvongwe, who was supposed to have been dropped off at home by her school taxi early in the week but never arrived, was discovered in Bloekombos on Thursday. Her devastated mother was taken to hospital after finding out her 9-year-old daughter had been murdered. Just 24 hours after a man was going to "negotiate" with police officers where he left the 2-year-old son of his girlfriend’s cousin, cops have dug up his little body, the Daily Voice reported. Oyingcwele's body was found just after 5pm on Thursday, buried in a shallow grave along the N2 near the Mission Station in Philippi. It is believed the suspect, the boyfriend of the child's mother's cousin, allegedly led cops to where he had apparently buried the child. The suspect is expected to make an appearance in the Athlone Magistrate's Court on Monday on charges of abduction and murder. Police spokesperson Sergeant Noloyiso  Rwexana said: "Western Cape members from Nyanga FCS have opened a case of abduction and murder after a body of yet to be identified child was discovered in a shallow grave in the bushes near the N2 on Thursday. "Cases of abduction and murder are under investigation. A 32-year old man was arrested and once he has been charged he will appear in the Athlone Magistrate's Court." Oyingcwele went missing last Sunday in Govan Mbeki, Philippi. Siphesihle Zokufa said earlier this week she had interfered in an argument between her cousin and the suspect, after he had apparently smashed up items inside the cousin's home. She said the suspect left the house and that the child apparently followed him.