The 28-year-old woman, who asked not to be identified, left Cape Town shortly after the attack in her home in October 2015. Haywood, who had been on the run for two years following a murder, was arrested last month after cops found him hiding in a secret toilet in his parents home in Lotus River. The woman says on October 15, 2015, she came home, where she lived with her 33-year-old fiancé, to find Ziyaad and his father, Moegsien, at their house. “My fiancé bought and sold superbikes and was meeting with a guy named Siraaj,” she says. While in her bedroom, she heard a loud bang and ran to the front. “All I could see was my fiancé up against the wall with his hands up.” The woman says she was confused and saw Moegsien running towards her. “He just said, ‘hello jy, staan vas’ (Hey you, stand still). I was not sure if he had a gun but I slammed the door closed. He just had an evil look.” She says Moegsien broke her windows to gain access to the house and she ran out to the backyard, fled and alerted neighbours. Shortly afterwards, she saw Ziyaad fleeing the scene on a motorbike followed by her fiance. She says he got away and four months later the couple left Cape Town. “The detective told us if I did not get away, they would have murdered us in the house because we saw their faces,” she says. “The bike was found by police when they raided his parents’ home in Lotus River.” Police spokesperson, Captain FC van Wyk, confirms the armed robbery. In 2016, Ziyaad was allegedly caught on CCTV footage shooting and killing security guard Herman Hendricks at China Town in Ottery and cops released wanted posters of him. He was arrested on 7 July this year when Grassy Park police found him hiding in a secret room created by his parents, Moegsien and Julega. All three were arrested, and while Ziyaad is currently in Pollsmoor, his parents, facing a charge of defeating the ends of justice, have been released on R2000 bail. The woman says three years after the ordeal, she got a fright when she saw Ziyaad on the front page of the Daily Voice. “They took our house keys and we did not know if they were coming back. I could not sleep for months because I always thought they were coming for me,” she says. “When I saw the article, I said thank God! I am over the moon that he has been caught.” Daily Voice