The “Fashion Week” show being held at Wynberg High School, in partnership with the acclaimed Afrika Ablaze dance company, is a “glorious feast of fashion, dance and artistic expression”. Speaking after yesterday afternoon’s premiere of the show, which boasts 50 Wynberg High pupils, the show’s director Glenda Jones said: “This is not an ordinary fashion show. We have managed to weave into it a delicate balance of modelling, dance and storytelling, with a special emphasis on Women’s Month (August), gender equality and a celebration of women. “We gave a powerful performance to a packed audience, who responded with rapturous applause throughout the entire performance. “The show was truly worthy of the thunderous applause and spontaneous standing ovation from the audience.” Pupils strutted their modelling stuff to the throbbing rhythms of music and deafening cheers from fellow pupils, teachers and parents. Jones explained that the show, which runs until tomorrow, aims to raise much-need funds for the school, which caters mainly for pupils from local disadvantaged areas. To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. She was motivated to assist the school with creative cultural events, as these form an integral part of their cultural education, she said. “This streetwise fashion show is dedicated to those who come from the Struggle and are determined to succeed,” said Jones. Her husband Danny Jones co-choreographed the show. The couple’s Afrika Ablaze dance company recently completed a highly successful run at the Baxter Theatre. Jones said Wynberg High’s “Fashion Week” show combines the hottest streetwise dance styles with the clothes to create an elegant-contemporary production, “because self-identity should never go out of style”. “The showcase includes a variety of different themes incarnated with passionate dancers, incredible musicians and exquisite models. “Together, with the help of influential and supporting teaching staff, we hope to raise funds to uplift the school and its community,” she said.  For more information on Fashion Week, please contact Wynberg High School, 33 Cheddar Road, Wynberg, at: 0217970017.   raphael.wolf@inl.co.za 