Three people who protested in Bishop Lavis for extra policing ended up in police custody themselves when they were arrested for allegedly contravening the Gatherings Act, News24 reported. The two men and a woman, all in their forties, were arrested on Wednesday, police said. "Please be advised three people, a woman aged 48 and two men ages 43 and 49, were arrested this morning in the Bishop Lavis protest, they are facing charges of contravening the Gatherings Act," said police spokesperson Sergeant Noloyiso Rwexana. "A group of about 600 Bonteheuwel community members were protesting against gang violence in the Bishop Lavis area. Intersections at Jakes Gerwel Drive, Bluegum Road and Jakkalsvlei Avenue and Valhalla Drive were blocked. "(Public Order Police) acted when the community became violent. Police will remain in the area. Currently, there are no further incidents reported," said Rwexana. DA councillor Angus McKenzie said the group had allegedly not heeded the terms of a protest permit as they demanded that Bonteheuwel, east of Cape Town's CBD, gets its own police station. They had allegedly blocked the busy Jakes Gerwel Drive. However, he said the protests were intended to highlight a demand for more policing and possible support from the SA National Defence Force after previous pleas for help in stopping a criminal and gang element seemed to fall on deaf ears. "Because of the high level of gangsterism in Bonteheuwel, our churches are having to close their doors because people will not walk to church under those circumstances. The little corner shop guy can't keep his shop open anymore because there is too much shooting," said McKenzie. He said taxis and buses were reluctant to drive there, and that even repairs and maintenance by the City of Cape Town were affected because personnel were too scared to take their equipment-laden bakkies into the suburb. He said he had already written three open letters to the Minister of Police and asked for increased visible policing because the current ratio of one police officer to 700 of around 85 000 residents in Bonteheuwel was inadequate.