Do not underestimate the emergence of electric cars. Researchers say if the government does not look at an alternative to the fuel levy, its fourth biggest source of income will dry up. Professor Stephan Krygsman, an expert in transport economics in the Department of Logistics at Stellenbosch University, is doing research on the ways in which road users are being taxed and whether it is sustainable in the long run. A fuel tax on each litre is an important revenue stream for the government, said Krygsman. However, Krygsman cautioned: “Even though there’s an increase in the number of vehicles on the country’s roads, the fuel levy, which contributes 5% to the national tax revenue, could be gone in 10 years, with the increase in vehicles’ fuel efficiency and electric and hybrid vehicles emerging. “The fuel levy is supposed to reflect the cost you impose on society, maintaining your roads, admin costs, congestion cost, environmental costs, accident costs. The problem is we are not good at capturing environmental and congestion costs. “Electric vehicles could hasten the demise of the fuel levy. They use less or no fuel at all, resulting in less fuel consumption per kilometre, which means the fuel levy will decrease." “It’s being estimated that by 2040 electric cars can make up 30-40% of the world’s 2 billion cars.” He pointed out that some countries would ban diesel cars from city centres as early as 2025 and most were already looking at alternatives to the fuel levy, such as a kilometre-based system. “What this means is that road users are charged for the distance they travel. They pay per kilometre and get an invoice at the end of the month.” “Through an onboard GPS, it will be possible to track different vehicle types to charge for actual road use. The charge will be based on the distance travelled, the vehicle type (eg large or small vehicles), the weight of the vehicle, the time of day and where the travelling takes place (eg cities or rural areas). This data will then be transmitted through a cellular network and used to calculate what each road user would pay.” “If we set the right price, this system can deliver sufficient income for government.” There are still several issues that have to be solved before such a system can be implemented, including but not limited to privacy and ethical considerations, user needs, technical system requirements and the role of the government. “While in South Africa there are still less than 1 000 electrical cars, because it is expensive, by 2024/2025 it will get cheaper. We are not technology leaders but we tend to follow,” Krygsman said. They have installed several GPS devices in cars to test the model. These individuals will receive invoices every month and researchers will see if it alters their behaviour. “We will also try and motivate them by providing two or three alternatives to reduce their costs.”  nicola.daniels@inl.co.za  