This is according to a study investigating DFSA, which shows that the drug ethanol was reported to be the most commonly involved, with most survivors reporting a voluntary consumption of it. Even though the country has high levels of sexual violence, there are differing opinions about the true extent of this problem. Available statistics vary between provinces, and no recent study has been conducted to ascertain the percentage of individuals who have been sexually assaulted in South Africa. The study said it was unclear how many of the reported cases were facilitated through the use of alcohol or other incapacitating drugs. Bronwen Davies, lecturer at the division of forensic medicine and toxicology at UCT and deputy director: forensic toxicologist within the Western Cape government, co-authored the study. “Survivors of sexual offences experience extreme degrees of powerlessness, which in cases of DFSA is often enhanced due to drug-related incapacitation. “It is critical to recognise and respect aspects of trauma associated with these specific crimes and provide specialised service delivery responding to needs of survivors, together with research dedicated to further understanding DFSA in the South African context.” Davis said there was a need to support the investment in forensic toxicology research and infrastructure and to strengthen evidence-based research. The study’s co-author, Dr Marianne Tiemensma, from the Clinical Forensic Unit at Victoria Hospital, said the public was aware of the risk of “date-rape drugs”. The study said it was important for survivors, when they report to a medical facility after sexual assault, to volunteer and provide information surrounding the incident, including details of any alcohol, prescription or non-prescription drugs that were taken before or after the incident. "It could potentially help their cases, particularly if the prosecution can demonstrate that a person was intoxicated and therefore incapable of consent to sexual activities.”