The man suspected of being the mastermind responsible for kidnapping a prominent Cape Town businessmen is headed for Mozambique after being extradited from Thailand. Thailand extradited Mozambican national Momade Assif Abdul Satar, who goes by the name of “Nini” and is alleged to have recruits in Cape Town who carry out kidnappings. “He was extradited at midnight (on Tuesday) on a flight to Kenya for onward travel to Mozambique,” said police Major-General Surachate Hakparn. “We will not allow foreign criminals to use Thailand as a base for their operations,” he added. When Nini was initially captured in Thailand, highly placed police sources told the Cape Times he would be extradited from Thailand to Mozambique, and then to Cape Town. Over the past year at least three businessmen were kidnapped in South Africa - the latest being 65-year-old Layaqat Allie Parker, founder of the Foodprop Group, which owns the Foodworld supermarket chain. Parker’s whereabouts is still not known. His family refused to comment yesterday. Police spokesperson FC van Wyk said: “Please be advised that the circumstances surrounding this case are being investigated and this office is unable to divulge finer aspects of the ongoing investigation.” Nini is reported to be the latest of many foreign criminals found hiding out in Thailand. Hakparn launched a high- profile clean-up campaign called Operation X-Ray Outlaw, during which about 2 000 foreigners were arrested - including drug dealers and prostitutes as well as visa overstayers in Thailand’s tourist hotspots. Interpol issued a “red notice”, or a non-binding arrest warrant, after allegations that Nini continued to run a ransom-kidnap business across Mozambique and South Africa from overseas. He was wanted for a string of crimes as a crackdown deepened on foreign alleged gangsters using the South-east Asian country as a bolt hole. Nini entered Thailand three years ago using a fake passport shortly after being freed on parole from a Mozambican jail for the 2000 murder of an investigative journalist in the capital Maputo, said the Mozambican government. He may have set up a front company to obtain a visa, according to the deputy commissioner of Thailand’s tourist police. While visiting Parker’s family recently, Police Minister Bheki Cele said the kidnapping of businessmen had been prioritised as one of the top four crimes in the country. In July last year, the owner of Zhauns Business Opportunity Machines, Sadeck Zhaun Ahmed, was kidnapped outside his business in Victoria Road, Salt River. He was returned home after two months, and although there were reports that a ransom of R20 million was paid for his release, his family denied this. In August last year, 76-year-old Omar Carrim was taken by a group of unknown men after leaving his business, Home Hyper City, in Pretoria. Police later found his burnt-out Mercedes-Benz, and Carrim was released by his captors in December. - Additional reporting by AFP.  francesca.villette@inl.co.za 