Darryll Sauer taught at Olympia School of Skills and reported a series of allegations, including that of theft and racism, to the Western Cape Education Department (WCED). Following that, he was dismissed after being found guilty of assault of a pupil in 2016. Sauer said during 2009 he laid charges against the principal Piet Maree, and a formal investigation was launched. He said a report was drawn up regarding the alleged irregularities, and a trial date was set. However, on the day of the trial, he said, he was phoned and told that a deal had been struck between the WCED, the accused and his union. “To date I have received no progress report. "I only heard unofficially that the principal pleaded guilty and was given a fine and a suspended sentence for the serious misconduct charge of theft and corruption,” Sauer said. Sauer had reported, among other things, theft of money that was made from the sale of meat; and grant money that was used by the principal to attend conferences. He also alleged racism regarding language use at the school. Sauer said the Education Labour Relations Council had reinstated him at the start of last year, but this was rejected, and now he is awaiting a Labour Court date. WCED spokesperson Millicent Merton said a forensic investigation into the school’s finances was launched, and the department took disciplinary action against all officials who were implicated in the report. They were all charged and sanctioned in respect of financial irregularities and/or misappropriation of funds; and/or negligence due to an oversight of responsibilities, Merton said. “It is denied that any allegations pertaining to racial issues were brought to the attention of the WCED with regard to educators who refused to teach learners. “The WCED wrote to the former employee’s lawyers on July 6, informing them that the request was not an official PAIA application and advising them on the correct process to follow. “The allegations made in 2009 were investigated and followed with formal charges against the previous principal. “The WCED is committed to investigating every case reported to the Directorate: Employee Relations.”  francesca.villette@inl.co.za 