The Western Cape Education Department has received reports of the drugging and abduction of two pupils in the Zonnebloem area, near the Cape Town CBD, in the past two weeks. Sergeant Noloyiso Rwexana, of the SAPS, said in a statement on Wednesday: "The police in the Western Cape have noted reports of a 'series of child abductions that took place in the past two weeks in the Zonnebloem area'. "On the policing front, we are part of the Safer Schools Programme with the Department of Education that looks into safety issues around schools. In addition, we are in constant communication with schools in the province. "As part of our policing initiatives, patrols are held around schools in the Cape Town area, including Zonnebloem. In winter we step up our operations to start at 04:00 in the morning as learners get to school while it is still dark. "The operations continue in the afternoon after school. The SAPS, with other role-players, including the scholar patrols (Traffic Services), work towards ensuring the safety of learners on a continuous basis. "We regard abductions and other crimes in a serious light. Hence we urge those with information about the above-cited cases to report them immediately. It is our objective to investigate in order to bring the perpetrators to book. "We advise learners and parents to be vigilant at all times on their way to and from school. SAPS patrols and operations will continue in the area in an effort to ensure visibility." According to provincial education spokesperson Jessica Shelver, the information they have received from the district office indicates that the pupils were targeted while they were on their way to or from school. Shelver said both pupils were found at a later stage and had been drugged. "Reports indicate that the perpetrators are drugging learners and abducting them. One reporting the involvement of a white van. "We have reported these incidents to the police and our district social workers have issued communications to schools in the area. This is obviously a source of extreme concern. We have not received any reports of this happening in any other area at this stage." 