Two significant arrests were made by the City’s Metro Police Department in Hanover Park at the weekend. Illegal guns, drugs and weekend drinking kept the City’s enforcement agencies busy as they rounded up nearly 150 suspects. The City was also heartened by an incfreasing number of tip-offs leading to the arrest of suspects. "Just before 21:30 last night, Metro Police officers on patrol spotted a man loitering in the area. He bolted when he saw the officers and they gave chase. During the pursuit, the suspect dropped what later turned out to be a firearm. "The 33-year-old, who has apparent gang affiliations, was arrested and detained at Philippi SAPS. Metro Police officers also recovered a 9mm pistol with the serial number filed off along with four rounds of ammunition. "Just hours earlier the City’s Metro Police Gang and Drug Task Team arrested a 41-year-old male for possession of high-grade dagga with an estimated value of R200 000. The suspect nearly collided with a Metro Police vehicle at a local garage and then tried to make a run for it. "He was found with two packets of compressed dagga in his vehicle. Later, at his home, officers found two big bags and seven small bags of the same dagga. He was taken to Phillippi SAPS for processing. "Several other suspects were arrested for possession of drugs during operations and patrols in the last week. Many of the arrests were made as a result of tip-offs received from the public. ‘We have seen a steady increase in the number of tip-offs from the public that have resulted in good arrests. Our enforcement agencies’ jobs are made easier because of the willingness of some community members to put their hand up and participate in the fight against crime, and I commend these residents. "While visible policing is a deterrent, visible policing with intent and driven by intelligence is far more effective. So I appeal to the public to continue assisting us in bringing criminals to book by blowing the whistle on illicit activities,’ said the City’s Mayoral Committee Member for Safety and Security; and Social Services, JP Smith. On the roads, Metro Police officers arrested 51 motorists for driving under the influence of alcohol during various roadblocks. Their colleagues in the Traffic Service caught 61 motorists for the same offence. Around 17 arrests were also made for reckless and negligent driving charges, and one motorist was found in possession of dagga. "Alcohol affects a person’s information processing skills and slows down the normal brain function. When drivers consume alcohol, it greatly increases the risk of collisions and harm to themselves, but also to other road users. "It is therefore extremely disconcerting to find so many people still drinking and driving. What is even more concerning is just how drunk people are when they are caught. "The blood alcohol readings are shocking at times and it beggars belief that people would even consider driving in that state, but more importantly that others would allow them to get behind the wheel."