Convicted killer Martin Visser allegedly attempted to commit suicide ahead of his sentencing in the Western Cape High Court sitting in Vredendal today. He is believed to have used his jacket in an attempt to hang himself, News24 reported. An officer walked in during the attempt. The jacket apparently broke and he fell and hurt his ear. Judge Nathan Erasmus said there had been an "incident" and that Visser was in hospital. He stood the matter down until 3pm or as soon as Visser is returned to court. The Lutzville farmer was on Tuesday convicted of murdering farmworker Adam Pieterse with a spade, dragging him with a quad bike and burying him behind his father's vineyard in 2015. Pieterse was originally from Prieska in the Northern Cape and worked seasonally in Lutzville along the West Coast. Visser, the owner of Dassieshoek farm, had operated a shop from his house where he sold alcohol and groceries to workers. Pieterse had worked on a neighbouring farm and, according to the court papers, also bought goods at Visser’s shop. One day when Pieterse wanted to buy alcohol and meat at the shop, Visser beat him with his fists, according to the State. Pieterse tried to run away, but Visser caught him and continued the assault. The next day Pieterse laid a complaint with the police, and later that same month while he was busy preparing food in his own dwelling, Visser arrived carrying a spade. According to the State, Visser started hitting Pieterse while demanding he drop the charges. The assault led to Pieterse’s death and Visser instructed the victim’s friends to help him dispose of the body, argued the State. Pieterse’s friend Lea Cloete had reported him missing. When she visited his home, she found “drag marks” and blood. When Pieterse’s decomposing body was found three weeks later, Rural and Farmworkers Development Organisation president Billy Claasen said he had made contact with the police’s provincial office and the then acting deputy provincial commissioner, Jeremy Vearey, had assigned a team of detectives to the case and the matter was taken to court. Because Pieterse’s body was decomposed, it could not be determined exactly what else Visser did to him. The family was only able to bury Pieterse in 2016.