Cape Town - Police have made another breakthrough in the murder of ANC Knysna councillor Victor Molosi, arresting four more suspects including a fellow councillor believed to be from the opposition party. DA councillor Peter Myers said the arrest of the council member shocked the town. He said he felt vindicated in his personal stance that the murder was politically motivated. However, he would not elaborate on the identity of the councillor as he was yet to appear in court, but said there was speculation and rumours which were “not far off the mark”. He said it was unprecedented that a serving councillor would be implicated in the murder of a fellow councillor. Police would also not disclose the 58-year-old’s identity. Southern Cape police spokesperson Captain Malcolm Pojie said the investigation into Molosi’s murder was at an advanced stage and more arrests were imminent. He said thorough investigation by the police Western Cape Provincial Task Team led to the arrest of more suspects on Tuesday night in Knysna and Cape Town respectively. “The integrated task team which comprises members from the provincial organised crime unit, Eden cluster detectives, Knysna detectives and Eden cluster crime intelligence, was established to investigate this case. Their tireless efforts paid dividends when the investigation took them to Cape Town, where two suspects - both aged 37 - were arrested yesterday. “Simultaneously, further investigation into this matter led to the arrests of another two suspects, aged 58 and 42 at their residence in Knysna, thus bringing the total arrests for the day to four and standing on five for the entire investigation,” he said. Pojie said the suspects, aged between 37 and 58, would be charged with conspiracy to commit murder as well as murder, and would appear in the Knysna Magistrate’s Court today. Meanwhile, the bail application for the first suspect, Mandla Tyololo, 39,was postponed until today. Knysna Mayor Mark Willemse said: “At this stage no names have been released therefore we cannot comment on the implications to Knysna municipality other than to state that we welcome the arrests and the ongoing investigation in the murder of Councillor Molosi.” Molosi was ANC chief whip in the Knysna municipality, ANC Southern Cape deputy secretary and he headed up mobilisation and training in the region. ANC councillor Tati Gombo said the arrests had brought some relief. “I can only tell you that the (arrested) councillor does not belong to any party but is an independent member of council. After Tyololo appeared in court, residents wanted to go to his home, but police intervened. Even so, this councillor had 24/7 security at his home.” Molosi family spokesperson Aseza Gungubele said: “Indeed we see the outcome of these arrests as exceptional work form the police in bringing those responsible to justice and that much closer to bringing peace to the family. This has brought great relief to the entire Concordia and the greater Knysna community.” Cape Times