A young, aspiring businessman from Gugulethu has pledged R50 000 towards assisting pupils from four high schools in Gugulethu pursuing studies of their choice at any tertiary institution. Liyanda Handula has also called on other business people and alumni of four Gugulethu schools to lend a hand. The donation will ensure needy students from the class of 2018 get the financial support they need to kick-start their careers at any tertiary institution in 2019. Handula’s pledge culminates from a successful two-day youth summit held at Intshukumo Comprehensive School in Gugulethu late in July that formed part of the Gugulethu 60th anniversary celebrations. Handula said being born in Gugulethu he has observed that the majority of people outside Gugulethu are not making a difference in the area. “We would normally convene during the festive season to exchange ideas and give constructive advice to one another. We all wish to make a contribution, add value and in so doing bring positive change to the lives of our beloved community,” he said. To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. Due to many constraints, these proposals never materialise, hence Handula has now “taken this important first step in making a difference. We would like to challenge other business associates from the same township to join this initiative”. With Gugulethu celebrating its 60 anniversary this year, the aim is to assist 60 matriculants. A task team comprising principals from the four high schools in Gugulethu will work out the criteria that will ensure only deserving students qualify. Handula assured that the process will be transparent. Phumzile Nteyi, project director for the Gugulethu 60th anniversary celebrations, said: “We would like to see learners who have ambitions of going to tertiary institutions getting a bursary. We are enticing local business people to come onboard.” “All of these schools have produced business people and we want them to plough back into the community,” he said. ID Mkhize High School principal Zola Phahlana said all former students must emulate the excellent example Handula is setting “You’ve got your BEE beneficiaries out there who, according to my understanding, have done little for their communities. It’s about time they rise to the occasion.”