Visser yesterday tried to hang himself in the courtroom cell before his sentencing proceedings. The Lutzville farmer was found guilty of Pieterse’s 2015 murder after he assaulted him with a spade. Rural and Farmworkers Development president Billy Claasen said Visser was brought back shortly after high court Judge Nathan Erasmus denied Visser’s defence team’s request for a postponement. He had been taken to Vredendal Hospital. He was injured. “He tried to hang himself before sentencing started,” Claasen said. The owner of Dassieshoek farm, Visser had operated a shop from his house where he sold alcohol and groceries to workers. Pieterse had worked on a neighbouring farm, and according to the court papers, also bought goods at Visser’s shop. On a day when Pieterse wanted to buy alcohol and meat at the shop, Visser beat him with his fists, according to the State. Pieterse then laid charges with police. Following that, Visser had killed Pieterse with a spade. Pieterse’s decomposing body was found in a shallow grave three weeks later. Visser’s aunt Anna Louw had said she was relieved that justice had been served after Visser was convicted, and activists hailed it a victory. Visser was also found guilty of assaulting Pieterse. In addition, he was found guilty of the 2011 assault of Kleintjie Moses. He had stabbed her in the chest with a broken bottle that December. He was sentenced to three years’ imprisonment for that. “This is massive win for farmworkers rights, and it paves the way for workers’ dignity to be restored,” Claasen said. “For too long have farmworkers been treated as second-class citizens of this land. “The time for change is now, and all spheres of government need to work together to achieve it.” Claasen said he felt for Visser’s family: his wife, Natasha, his sister, his parents, and children. “But justice had to be served. It was a gruesome murder. “My heart also goes out to Adam’s family who viciously had a loved one taken away. No person deserves to die the way Adam did. He was killed worse than an animal would’ve been,” Claasen said. He added that the Rural and Farmworkers Development body did not hate anyone. “We are not judging anyone, only God can do so,” he said.  francesca.villette@inl.co.za 