The clashes resulted in the destruction of property and the looting of businesses in parts of Stellenbosch when the backyarders refused to allow their structures to be demolished. Community leader Ndikholwa Magoqoza said backyarders had been struggling to get places to stay for many years. He said that since Thursday, about 40 families had built their structures on private land within the municipality. “The police’s action is not going to stop us building. Public Order Police and the Red Ants demolished structures, and the people fought back. "People were manhandled unnecessarily. Two women were badly injured and admitted to hospital. That land is privately owned and the municipality has nothing to do with it,” he said. Stellenbosch Municipality spokesperson Stuart Grobbelaar has condemned the backyarders’ actions. “While it is encouraging to see communities exercising their constitutional right to demonstrate peacefully, the level of violence and destruction of property that accompanied these activities is of great concern to us. “It is becoming increasingly clear that a small group of troublemakers and ringleaders are behind this protest. These individuals are simply taking advantage of the situation by looting and stealing. "Shop windows were broken, cars were vandalised and stores in especially the Bird Street area were looted. We cannot allow a small group of criminals to hold our businesses and residents hostage. “Let it be very clear: looting and the destruction of property are never an answer and will not be tolerated in Stellenbosch,” said Grobbelaar. He said law enforcement was working with the police to identify those involved. “We will help the police with any means possible to ensure that these criminals are brought to book,” he said. Police spokesperson Andre Traut said the suspects had been arrested in Cloetesville on charges of public violence. He said nine people were released on a warning, and the tenth suspect had been detained until his court appearance today.  sandiso.phaliso@inl.co.za 