Cape Town - It's #InternationalCatDay. So we went back into our archives for our favourite cat moments. 1. Cats treat us mere humans with total disdain and certainly don't care about your career as a respected academic or any fancy television interviews taking place in your office. Polish historian Jerzy Targalski discovered this during an on-camera appearance on a Dutch news programme when his cat unceremoniously climbed atop his head in the middle of the interview. Targalski was speaking with a journalist from the Dutch public television station Nieuwsuur to weigh in on "the controversial forced removal of Polish top judge Malgorzata Gersdorf" by the country's ruling conservative party, according to NTR reporter Rudy Bouma.  2. British amateur photographer Lorraine Playle thought she was the cat’s whiskers after pulling off this snap. The mother-of-four managed to persuade all eight of her beloved moggies to pose for the camera on her stairs. The true copy cats lining up by their food bowls are Ashton, Cleo, Garfield, Ghost, Ted, Sooty, Boo and Ned. All are aged between six months and ten years old.   3. Skabenga - Durban’s most famous cat - this year successfully predicted the team that would lift the coveted 2018 Fifa Soccer World Cup trophy in Russia. Confronted with two bowls of tasty treats - each placed next to the flags of France and Croatia - at his home at the five-star Oyster Box Hotel in uMhlanga Skabenga promptly settled on France. 4. At first glance, you could be forgiven for thinking that this adorable cat has been to a face-painting party. But look closely and you will see her look is entirely natural. The British shorthair’s appearance, with her face divided into halves of grey and black by a straight line, while the rest of her body is black, is down to a quirk in her DNA. The two-tone cat, pictured at her home in France by animal photographer Jean-Michel Labat, is a chimera – the result of two embryos fusing together in the womb, merging non-identical twins.   Daily Mail, Washington Post and Independent Media