Staff arrived to an empty kitchen and broken locks yesterday morning. The incident came days after disgruntled Khayelitsha pupils, teachers, parents and community organisations marched to town demanding immediate safety at schools in the township. About nine schools had experienced armed robberies and burglaries. Chairperson for the school governing body, Thokozani Ncayiyana, said this was not the first burglary at Sosebenza. “I don’t stay far from the school so I was among the residents who were woken up by the alarm. However, we were not sure which school it was. "The perpetrators had cut the fence at the back of the school and broke the padlocks. We don’t know what the pupils will eat tomorrow (today). We hope for a solution soon. We are really worried about the rate of these incidents. "There was no security so it was an easy job for the criminals. The police came and took statements and said another official would come for fingerprints but nobody came. “We are tired of demanding the same thing, I don’t know what we must do in order for our schools to be prioritised. Black schools also matter. Next Monday we will have a meeting with Premier Helen Zille and the Khayelitsha Task Team,” he said. Ncayiyana said the outcome of the meeting will indicate what to do next. “We must make it clear that we are prepared to shut down all schools if we don’t see progress as pupils and teachers' lives are paramount,” he said. Western Cape Education Department (WCED) spokesperson Bronagh Hammond said additional security was provided to the school. “Unfortunately, the feeding scheme could not operate without equipment today, however, the WCED is following this up with the service provider to ensure that the scheme is up and running again as soon as possible. "It is extremely sad that these learners have been directly affected by this criminal activity. The security gate was also damaged by the perpetrators. "We again appeal to all communities to keep an eye out for any suspicious behaviour in or around our schools and report it to the SAPS.” Khayelitsha Development Forum chairperson Ndithini Tyhido said: “We are encouraging the community to be responsible citizens and not purchase the stolen items. "What is happening in our schools angers us because most of the pupils come from disadvantaged homes and depend on the meal.”