Cape Town - As Women's Month comes to an end, a Kraaifontein mother has been hospitalised after finding out her 9-year-old daughter has been murdered.Previledge Mabvongwe’s body was found near a dumpsite in Sam Jokozela, Bloekombos, on Thursday by passers-by after she had been reported missing on Monday. Her uncle, Richard Mabvongwe, said she must have been killed recently as blood had not dried on her school uniform. Previledge was last seen on her way home from school. The discovery of Previledge’s body comes a day after the provincial education department issued a warning to parents about child abductions. A third Cape pupil was abducted in a matter of weeks, and in the most recent case, the police said they were investigating rape after the 15-year-old girl was abducted by unknown suspects in a white BMW on her way to school on August 23. Mabvongwe said the family were trying to remain strong for her parents as her mother was admitted to hospital after hearing the news. “I received a call early in the morning from someone who said they saw my number on social media and informed me the body of a girl wearing a uniform was found. “I immediately called my brother and his wife to know if they had heard anything. I encouraged them to be strong and go to identify the body. "A few minutes later my brother confirmed it was her and that her mother collapsed. She is still in the hospital as she is struggling to breathe,” he said. The family said they suspected Previledge might have been kept alive by her kidnapper, and killed when the search intensified. “We are leaving everything in the hands of the police, and we want justice for her. She was a quiet child who never roamed the streets. She would go to school and go straight home. It was raining on Monday so her mother was indoors and didn’t hear the transport. “At this stage we cannot say how she might have been killed, the post-mortem from the police will reveal if she was sexually assaulted,” said Mabvongwe. Provincial education spokesperson Bronagh Hammond said they were informed Previledge had been found. “On Monday, a Grade 3 learner from Scottsville Primary went missing after her private transport reportedly dropped the pupil approximately 100m from her home. “The driver reportedly did not drop the pupil at her door as there was a truck blocking the street. The driver reportedly watched the learner pass the truck and then drove off. The pupil never made it home. “Arrangements for support and counselling are being made. We are absolutely devastated by this tragic news. “Our heartfelt condolences and prayers are with the pupil’s family, friends and the school community,” Hammond said. Pupils, parents and teachers can call the Safe Schools Call Centre for counselling and advice on 0800454647. Police spokesperson Noloyiso Rwexana said authorities were investigating. “Cases of murder and abduction were opened for investigation. “Police detectives appeal to anyone with information that could lead to the arrest of the perpetrator to come forward to assist with the investigation.” Sonke Gender Justice spokesperson Patrick Godana said the shocking news coming at the end of Women’s Month was both disappointing and enraging. “We appeal to residents to help find the monster in our society who did this. This disgusting act must not happen in our name,” Godana said. In a separate incident, late on Thursrday afternoon police confirmed that a 32-year-old man was arrested after the body of 2-year-old Oyingcwele Zokufa was discovered in a shallow grave in bushes near the N2. The Philippi child had been missing since Sunday. Rwexana said a case of abduction and murder had been opened.  okuhle.hlati@inl.co.za   francesca.villette@inl.co.za  Cape Times