The play tells of a talented young blind girl who wants to join a youth theatre group where all the youth have perfect sight. They don’t accept her because they ignorantly believe she will ruin their image. She decides to challenge them, which results in alarming but positive consequences. This production was one of 10 selected from 63 plays to participate in the Artscape Drama Festival finals. Creative director Theo Davids said he was excited for audiences to see the story live and experience the talent of the actors. “I’ve worked with these kids, and they always speak about being marginalised because they’re blind and how they can’t get into mainstream because people always have a sympathetic way of looking at them, when all they want is to be accepted as normal actors.” Davids, who is also the scriptwriter, said he was inspired by the children and wanted to tell a story of acceptance. “Regardless of who you are, accept me for who I am. “This story is about personal development for the kids, who face many social problems like poverty and acceptance - many of the kids with albinism feel people look at them and think they are a curse. “The play has brought about a new confidence in them because when people applaud, they feel the admiration they deserve. “Even the teachers said they’ve seen a new type of child in the classroom, because they believe something good can happen in their lives,” director Kim Bowers said, adding that audiences could “expect to be wowed”. Bowers said the play was filled with song and dance, which was all original, and the young actors were very skilled. “They do not let their disability hold them back, they are as able as anybody else, and I would want people to feel more comfortable with those who have disabilities and not undermine them.” She said the story had depth and was also filled with humour. The objective of the Artscape Drama Festival is to give performers a platform to voice their creativity, views and social concerns through drama on a professional stage to a captive audience. The Bridgetown Theatre Company has decided to use this platform to nurture and empower their performers in scriptwriting, acting, producing and directing. The Future Looks Bright will take place this Thursday at 7.30pm. Tickets cost R40 and are available at Computicket and at the door.  nicola.daniels@inl.co.za 