Mafenuka, 22, gave birth on July 6 to the premature babies, now fondly known as the “Cape Quads”, without complication. Since then they have called Tygerberg Hospital home. The healthy infants, two boys and two girls, weighed only 980g, 1 010g, 830g and 1 030g at birth. Weeks later they have gained significant weight and have developed well, Bubele, Buchule, Bunono and Bungcwele, now weigh 2 040g, 1 770g, 1 580g and 1 980g. Mafenuka said although she was enjoying being a mother and was still overwhelmed with joy, she was worried about how she would pay the rent at their new home. “I now know their personalities and characters, which is helping me to understand their needs and respond to them. while another has all their personalities. We have found a place to rent because our house is not adequate for my babies. ‘‘The house gets flooded when it rains and it’s always cold. The challenge now will be paying rent as my mother is unemployed and the father of the babies doesn’t have a permanent job,” Mafenuka said. Paediatrician Dr Lunga Mfingwana said they were confident the babies would be able to go home next week. “The hospital protocol states that all premature babies can be discharged once they reach 1.8kg. The babies couldn’t be discharged this week as we are waiting for one baby that needs to reach that weight. ‘‘My role was to check if the babies were growing and the mother was well physically and psychologically as we know some mothers suffer from postpartum depression. “We also check daily if she is producing enough breast milk for the babies and they are feeding well and if there are no infections as premature babies have an immunity that is not well developed,” added Mfingwana. Provincial Health MEC Nomafrench Mbombo who worked as a midwife said: “We are proud of the young mother who has such a responsibility. “We have encouraged her to go back to school and finish her studies. ‘Some staff members will visit their home and check up on them. “We also thank the staff at Tygerberg for all the help  and support." “The girls are very quiet, one boy is an attention seeker