The sombre mood turned to laughter as family, friends, colleagues and students reflected on Mayosi’s legacy at a special memorial service yesterday. President Cyril Ramaphosa declared a Special Provincial Official Funeral for Mayosi. This category of a funeral is designated for distinguished persons. The president has instructed that the national flag be flown at half-mast in province on his funeral on Saturday. The family of the UCT Health Sciences dean said Mayosi had for the past two years been battling depression. Mayosi’s younger sister, Khuthala, spoke of how they were inseparable growing up and she looked up to him. “Since the age of four he has been an intellectual person; he would tell us to live life with meaning and purpose. Through his encouraging and motivating words we saw beyond the fact that we grew in the dusty streets of a village in Eastern Cape. “I remember when my mother was worried sick because he didn’t know my whereabouts. Bongani had taken me to school without my mother’s consent and that is how I started school at the age of three. He had a passion for education and didn’t quit school because of the 20km walk to school. He always tried to find solutions to everything. “My brother, we will dearly miss you. As the Mayosi family we wish to thank you for the amount of support and condolences messages from everyone. It shows how he touched many lives,” said Khuthala. Deputy Health Minister Mathume Phaahla said: “I know the are many questions in our minds if we didn’t fail him,if there is something we could have done or intervened in anyway There were discussions to see if there could be an alternative areas where his specialities could be used. Unfortunately, he departed before any of those plans could be implemented. “When we were in Stellenbosch at a graduation ceremony I noticed that he was not catching the excitement like everyone but I dismissed that concern. Bongani’s short life confirms that people of a rare breed, geniuses like him, unfortunately don’t tend to live long in our midst and this we have seen in other professions. We are proud of this giant’s achievements and he played a big role in health and science. He was a true public servant.” Last year, a research team led by Mayosi made what was described as the “biggest breakthrough in South African cardiology since Dr Chris Barnard’s first heart transplant”, for identifying a gene that is a major cause of sudden death by heart failure among young people and athletes. He was elected to the US National Academy of Medicine, one of the highest honours in health and medicine last year. UCT vice-chancellor Professor Mamokgethi Phakeng said people were united in grief by the great loss of a friend, colleague and man who gave his utmost to help others. “He did not just call for change he was change, in his life and in his work. To honour his memory I want to extend his challenge he gave to me to be the change you want to see at UCT. To reflect and learn from it, let’s better support each other and create a community of care. "He set an example for us. In his eyes, students were future leaders. Colleagues were partners in saving lives. We have lost Prof Mayosi, but we have not lost his effect on us.”