This after a learner was allegedly harassed for making a speech during an assembly about racial issues, diversity and white privilege. Some teachers and pupils reportedly walked out in anger, and encouraged learners to also walk out and not listen the speech by a pupil identified as the school’s head girl. The school’s principal, Francois Moll, said he couldn’t comment on the issue as the WCED was investigating. He said he was aware of the discussion during the assembly, but was not at the school when it took place. Moll said he read about the incident on social media and there were many untrue statements about the school and the incident. The incident sparked outrage on Facebook, with several claiming that some teachers at the school were racists and that there had been other incidents prior to this, but never reported out of fear of reprisal. Others praised the teachers and claimed it was the way the speech was written, and said that led to the reported walkout. Former pupils Lona Mbotyi said learners at the school informed her that the head girl was victimised the previous week after the assembly by both teachers and pupils. “The allegations against the school is that the head girl was heading a discussion about racial issues within the school, as it seemed to be a recurring issue not only from learners to other learners, but from teachers to learners as well. "The head girl made a speech and in her speech gave an example of people of colour and whites running a race, however, the person of colour is told to stop the race and the white person is left to continue. “As a result of this, white people are well ahead (white privilege) than the people of colour. "She stated that people of colour are in the school to better their families, and our parents could never be what they wanted, because circumstances didn’t allow the luxury of time; suffering was happening now and couldn’t wait for anyone to first go and fulfil their dreams,” said Mbotyi. “We have a problem with how the school treated the situation and how the teachers influenced the pupils. If the speech was wrong in any way, they could’ve fixed it in the correct manner and not belittled or victimised her," she added.