UCT Professor Bongani Mayosi's suicide has shown that we are a nation in crisis, says Nkosikhulule Nyembezi, a researcher, policy analyst and a human rights activist. The SA Depression and Anxiety Group (Sadag) says that following the death of Mayosi, their helplines have been inundated with calls. Mayosi committed suicide and was buried on Saturday. “We have had many additional suicide callers, concerned family members and even work colleagues calling in to ask for help, information and emergency intervention. Our volunteer counsellors have been fielding hundreds of calls, while more people have been reaching out via emails, SMSes and social media needing help with various mental health issues,” Sadag said. What's even more worrying, according to Sadag operations director Cassey Chambers, is that depression and suicide were a serious issue among the youth. The youngest suicide victim was a 6-year-old. 10 facts on mental illness and suicide - At some point in their life 1 in 4 people will be affected by mental illness. - Bipolar disorder is the sixth leading cause of disability in the world. Over 4 million South Africans are bipolar. - There are only 0.28 psychiatrists and 0.32 psychologists for every 100 000 people in South Africa. - More than 20 South Africans commit suicide every day. Nearly 30 000 Americans die by suicide every year. - In China, someone takes his or her own life on average every two minutes. China accounts for nearly a quarter of the global total of suicides, with around 300 000 suicides a year. - Abuse victims are more likely than their peers to commit suicide. - While there is a common perception that suicide rates are highest among the young, the elderly, in fact, have the highest suicide rates. - The spring months have consistently shown to have the highest suicide rate, 4-6 percent higher than the average for the rest of the year. - Each suicide intimately affects at least 6 other people. - Around 80 percent of people with mental disorder don't receive treatment. (Source: the World Health Organisation, the SA Depression and Anxiety Group and dosomething.org) 