The death toll of the bus accident that claimed 10 lives near Beaufort West could still climb, with four people, including a child, still in a critical condition, the Western Cape Health Department said. Among the fatalities were six females, three males and a two-month-old baby boy. Around 30 people were injured. The bus had been travelling from Cape Town in the direction of Beaufort West. The accident took place at 2.15am, about 25km outside Beaufort West. Department spokesperson Nadia Ferreira told News24 that nine people died at the scene of the crash while one died after being admitted at the Beaufort West provincial hospital. "Thirty-three patients were treated at Beaufort West provincial hospital of which four are in a critical condition," Ferreira said. She added that out of the four critically injured people, two were airlifted to George Hospital, one was taken to a private facility in George and the child was expected to be transferred, either to Red Cross or George Hospital. "Five more seriously injured patients are currently admitted at Beaufort West provincial hospital awaiting road or fixed-wing air transfers," she said. Authorities and rescue personnel had to extricate people trapped underneath the wreckage of the long-distance bus. “According to the information we receive the driver lost control of the bus, we understand that the commuters were travelling from Cape Town to the Eastern Cape. We're not sure where in the Eastern Cape exactly,” said provincial Traffic Chief Department of Transport and Public Works Kenny Africa. Naledi Coach Service, a long-distance bus service that operates from Philippi, owns the bus which was carrying 60 passengers. The owner of the company said that there were two bus drivers aboard and that neither had sustained injuries. Police spokesperson Noloyiso Rwexana said: “Police are currently investigating a case of culpable homicide. We can confirm that the death toll is sitting at 10 people and 30 people have been injured.” Traffic on the road was brought to a virtual standstill by the crash and the ensuing rescue operation.