The Black Academic Caucus (BAC) at UCT had called for an investigation at the weekend, but UCT yesterday said it had already initiated an inquiry shortly after Mayosi‘s death. The family of the late UCT health sciences dean said Mayosi had been battling depression for the past two years, and ended his own life on July 27. The BAC said in a statement the inquiry must be set up in consultation with especially black staff and students who had on various occasions expressed their experiences of being marginalised at UCT. “An understanding of the working conditions in institutions such as UCT is key to such an inquiry,” the BAC said. They have also called for the entire process to be transparent. “It is our firm view that the results of this inquiry will not only help us understand the circumstances leading to the passing away of Prof Mayosi. Its results will make a huge contribution to identifying in fairly precise terms what it is that is wrong with the UCT structures and how these could be addressed to the benefit of especially the historically and currently marginalised groups.” In 2017, Mayosi went on leave for three months, and after returning, collapsed in his office. He then wrote to former vice-chancellor Max Price, asking to resign from his position, according to the institution. UCT spokesperson Elijah Moholola said that shortly after hearing of the passing of Mayosi, vice-chancellor Professor Mamokgethi Phakeng had initiated an inquiry into his death. Mayosi’s memorial service was held on Saturday at the Cape Town International Convention Centre. It had been declared a special provincial official funeral by President Cyril Ramaphosa. Mayosi’s brother Sipho Mayosi said: “I will be failing myself and the entire family if I don’t say this, without fear or favour: that I hope and wish and in the same breath, demand, that UCT heed the call made by the Black (Academic) Caucus to investigate the death and leave no stone unturned on the circumstances surrounding the death of my brother, so that we may have closure. “Otherwise, his legacy would be in vain.”