Police, through the efforts of several operations in the area, arrested the suspects only hours after three other gang members from the same community were served hefty sentences in the Western Cape High Court. Police spokesperson FC van Wyk said the seven suspects were expected in court on charges of attempted murder, possession of illegal firearms and ammunition, and possession of drugs. The suspects are aged between 16 and 38. “Following three separate shooting incidents between rival groups at the River View Flats in Worcester, Worcester police embarked on several operations that resulted in seven suspects arrested,” Van Wyk said. On Friday, three members of the Junior Cisco Yakkees (JCY) gang were sentenced after killing members of a rival gang. “All members of the JCY gang group who were the accused in the killing of members of the Uitbyter gang at Avian Park in Worcester during a shooting in March 2017 were found guilty,” Van Wyk said. National Prosecuting Authority spokesperson Eric Ntabazalila said the JCYs were in a running battle with the Uitbyters over drug trade and territory in Avian Park, Worcester. Sentences were imposed under the Prevention of Organised Crime Act (Poca). Joachim Dudley was sentenced to 22 years’ direct imprisonment for murder, 10 years under Poca, eight years’ direct imprisonment for attempted murder, eight years imprisonment for possession of a firearm without a licence, and two years’ imprisonment for possession of ammunition. Waldo Julies received 20 years’ direct imprisonment for murder, 10 years under Poca, and eight years for possession of a firearm without a licence. Lungisani Tsetse will serve two 20-year sentences for murder, 10 years’ direct imprisonment sentences under Poca, eight years’ direct imprisonment for attempted murder, eight years for possession of a firearm without a licence and two years for possession of ammunition. All sentences will run concurrently. Ntabazalila said: “Dudley shot Kerwin Visagie and John Wisani while they were buying stuff at a spaza shop on Glasogie Street, Avian Park. Visagie ran away while Wisani fell down. ‘‘He was still breathing when Dudley walked up to him, fired two shots on his head and then fled the scene. “In their plea and sentencing agreements with the State, Julies and Tsetse claim they murdered Charles Januarie and Jubelian Arendse as part of revenge after their members were attacked by members of the Uitbyters the evening of April 3 (last year).”  chevon.booysen@inl.co.za 