The Hanover Park Civic Centre was packed with grieving mothers and grandmothers who united against gang violence and demanded change on the Cape Flats, where some of their children became statistics of gang violence. Among the many parents left with no answers about why their child was killed were those of Keegan de Silver, a 17-year-old Mount View High School pupil who was caught in a gang shootout and shot five times in a spaza shop close to home on yesterday. De Silver will be buried today. Also in attendance was Johanna Johannessen, mother to Octavia, a 16-year-old Crystal High pupil who was killed in August last year by stray bullets, metres away from her home. Denise Messier, mother to Shannon, 19, who was also killed by a stray bullet in 2010 while he was walking home carrying his baby, was also there. Mayor Patricia de Lille said that together with councillor Antonio van der Rheede, about 22 women would be employed to start a programme called Women For Change, which would help them take back Hanover Park. To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. “I am here to offer you comfort and encouragement that is tearing our communities apart. I can never know your heartache but I am here to say that we as mothers, sisters, grandmothers and daughters must stand together to put an end to this scourge. “We are gathering together today in Women’s Month our country has a history of strong women who stood tall against oppressors to fight for our rights. "Things don’t have to be this way because we all know that there are many successful people who come from Hanover Park, Manenberg, Kewtown and all over the Cape Flats,” said De Lille. Meanwhile, what was meant to be a peaceful demonstration by Bonteheuwel residents who demanded something be done to curb gang violence, turned into chaos when police discharged stun grenades after refusing to open several roads they had closed. The residents said they’ve had enough of living in fear, with shootings occurring almost daily. “The protest again highlighted the huge problem of gangsterism and drugs in the area. Added to this is the frustration felt by residents about the lack of performance and efficiency by the SAPS to deal with the problem. “However what transpired cannot be accepted. A meeting is set for Friday morning with community and religious leaders in the area,” ward councillor Angus Mckenzie said.