For Adam Pieterse’s family, justice was served after the high court, sitting in Vredendal, found Martin Visser guilty of the 2015 murder. “We feel much better now that he has been found guilty. It broke my heart to hear how Adam was killed. We were all heartbroken. How does one human do that to another? “I am glad things have been concluded,” said Pieterse’s aunt, Anna Louw. Pieterse was originally from Prieska in the Northern Cape, and worked seasonally in Lutzville along the West Coast. Visser, the owner of Dassieshoek farm, had operated a shop from his house where he sold alcohol and groceries to workers. Pieterse had worked on a neighbouring farm, and according to the court papers, also bought goods at Visser’s shop. One day when Pieterse wanted to buy alcohol and meat at the shop, Visser beat him with his fists, according to the State. Pieterse tried to run away, but Visser caught him and continued the assault. The next day Pieterse laid a complaint with the police, and later that same month while he was busy preparing food in his own dwelling, Visser arrived carrying a spade. According to the State, Visser started hitting Pieterse while demanding he drop the charges. The assault led to Pieterse’s death, and Visser instructed the victim’s friends to help him dispose of the body, argued the State. Pieterse’s friend Lea Cloete had reported him missing. When she visited his home, she found “drag marks” and blood. When Pieterse’s decomposing body was found three weeks later, Rural and Farmworkers Development Organisation president Billy Claasen said he had made contact with the police’s provincial office and the then acting deputy provincial commissioner Jeremy Vearey had assigned a team of detectives to the case and the matter was taken to court. Because Pieterse’s body was decomposed, it could not be determined exactly what else Visser did to him. The family was only able to bury Pieterse in 2016. Louw said the case dragged at times. Claasen said Visser was the kind of employer who posed a danger to society. “We, as the Rural and Farmworkers Development Organisation, are satisfied with this judgment, and we welcome it. “Furthermore, it paves the way for a dignified living conditions for farmworkers. “For too long farmworkers’ lives have been oppressed by those who they work for and even the systems in our country. The government failed our farmworkers and poor people. “We want to request the government to expropriate that farm of the accused without compensation and give it to the farmworkers. “It is farmers like these that needs to be taken out of society and put away,” Claasen said. Visser was also charged with assault of another farmworker in 2011. He allegedly assaulted the woman by stabbing her with a broken bottle. He was also charged with assaulting his partner, Lya Visser in 2012, by punching her and dragging her. President of the Building and Allied Workers’ Union of SA, Nosey Pieterse, said the judgment restored some faith among farmworkers in the justice system - as rural workers were very often the victims of such crimes. Nosey said many farmworkers have died at the hands of their employers, and families seldom got any closure. “This will bring some closure for his family, and as activists in the farming sector, we are happy that this sends a message to farmers,” Nosey said. Visser was expected to be sentenced today.  francesca.villette@inl.co.za 