Religious and spiritual leaders gathered for a silent walk against lawlessness at St George’s Cathedral in Cape Town on Wednesday. The purpose of Wednesday's march to the Castle of Good Hope was to demonstrate the united message from leaders of various faiths, traditions and cultures. Home Of Praise Evangelical Apostolic Church leader Madlamini Songelwa said that faith leaders must now also go to places where unrest occurred. “Those gathered here must go to places of unrest in the earth, like the mines where the land is in unrest (sic). We must go to our communities where there is violence and injustice, and pray so that those places can change,” she said. Songelwa said the message "must be carried across the country, to all communities and all peoples of all faiths to worship and pray for peace". The march was organised by the Western Cape Christian Ministers Association, Cape Town Interfaith Initiative and the Western Cape Religious Leaders Forum and supported by the Muslim Judicial Council. Faith leaders and congregants released white doves as a symbol of peace, of each praying in their own way and language for peace in the country. Castle of Good Hope chief executive Calvin Gilfillan said it was fitting that the gathering occurred at a symbolic symbol of how the peace on the African continent has been disturbed. “This 5-star building is a symbol of the armed colonialism and so it’s appropriate that these religions are here to consecrate and heal this place. "It was out of here that land dispossession occurred and I commend you highly that you have descended here to the place I call the tombstone of our colonialism and a place of anti-peace,” he said. National chairperson of the religious leaders' forum, Bishop Templeton Mbekwa, said all formations of faith gathered because of the social decay occurring in the country. “We as religious leaders have been silent for some time, but now we are taking a stand and pronouncing peace and harmony in our country. "This is the first step taken and next month a greater national march will be held where we will call our political, civil leaders and citizens to join us,” he said.  dominic.adriaanse@inl.co.za 