#FeesMustFall leader and activist Mcebo Dlamini has stood up for under-fire UCT chemical engineering lecturer Arthur Mabentsela‚ saying the lecturer was depressed and needed help. He later deleted his post. “The black academic is suffering and suffocating under severe depression‚” he wrote on Facebook. This after Mabentsela had said on Facebook the #MenAreTrash movement was “bullsh*t” and that women simply could not attract "quality men". He also admitted to being depressed and said at one stage he had wanted to rape and kill a family member. “When I was depressed… I wanted to kill her.” Depression was the reason given for the tragic suicide of renowned UCT cardiologist Professor Bongani Mayosi recently. Nelli Nof wrote on Facebook: "Praying for Arthur Mabentsela. He might be going through whatever it is he's going through; but one thing I know is that his intentions have always been good."  Despite Mabentsela accusing the university of lying about its action against him, UCT insisted on Wednesday it has taken “urgent and immediate steps” to suspend a lecturer over comments he made on social media. Spokesperson Gerda Kruger said UCT was “deeply disturbed” by the post. In a statement, UCT said: "The University of Cape Town is deeply disturbed by the content of the post made by a staff member on Facebook and has taken urgent and immediate steps to pursue a suspension. The lecturer is not teaching any students at present. UCT distances itself from the post and subsequent comments made by the staff member. "The university is dealing with the matter urgently by following the appropriate Employee Relations legislation and the UCT Human Resources policies. UCT confirms that, despite claims to the contrary, the staff member has been informed of the formal process to suspend him. "On Wednesday, a pre-suspension hearing took place where the individual could make a case why he should not be suspended. The meeting has now been concluded and the representation by the person is being considered by the vice-chancellor, who will make an appropriate decision after considering the matter. "The university was on Tuesday morning made aware of the social media post made by a university staff member on his personal Facebook page. On becoming aware of the post, UCT looked into the matter and treated it as urgent. UCT is following due process to look into the matter and will ensure that the matter is properly investigated and dealt with. "The content of the post is grave, unacceptable and disturbing, and completely out of alignment with UCT values. UCT has a practice to deal with issues relating to staff in a manner aligned with best practice in human resources policy, following due process in a compassionate manner that allows all who are involved to feel that they are being treated fairly and procedurally, and to access support through the university if it is needed."  