Wesley Practising School principal Andre Engel said the variety show was about providing a platform for these talented pupils to show off their skills, as well as reward them for all their hard work and dedication. “These pupils really battled against all odds and attended weekly sessions religiously to improve. "It is extremely difficult to improve at playing a musical instrument when you don't have one yourself and hence my admiration for these pupils who offered up their breaks and came after school to practise on the few guitars we have at school.” He said the choir has already shown great promise – after only six weeks of practise they achieved bronze at an Eisteddfod in April. The school launched an organised sports, music and culture programme at the start of this year, partnering with the Cape Cultural Collective to establish a school choir. “The programme forms part of our philosophy of developing pupils holistically and presenting them with as many opportunities as possible to discover, explore and develop their talents.” Seasoned performers have also been invited, so that not only could pupils “rub shoulders” with them, but show them that such a vocation was not out of reach for them. The programme will combine the talents of the Wesley pupils as well as performances by other community and school choirs and musicians. The school has also been working with Mike Fenn of Live Music Cape Town who teaches guitar and marimbas, Foxtrot Dance Studio which teaches Latin and ballroom dancing and Mrs Latola who coaches the hip-hop dancers. Chairperson of the CCC Mansoor Jaffer said it was really exciting to see the Wesley Choir growing the way it has. “The Cape Cultural Collective is proud to partner with Wesley School as we know the power of arts and culture to bring communities together and develop young people's self-confidence. We are honoured to partner with this historic school in bringing this project to fruition.” The Wesley Shining Stars and Friends concert will take place on Saturday at the Cornerstone Institute, Cecil Avenue, Salt River. Tickets for the concert cost R65 and can be obtained from the school, at the door or reserved by calling the school on 021 441 8646 or email zjattiem81@gmail.com