Pietermaritzburg - Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF) leader Julius Malema says that the struggle for liberation is incomplete without the part played by women being told. Malema is currently addressing thousands of EFF supporters at the Caluza Sports Centre in Edendale, Pietermaritzburg, at the party's Women's Day Celebration. Malema said that the heroes and heroines of South Africa's liberation struggle do not only include Nelson Mandela, Walter Sisulu, Robert Sibukwe and Steve Biko. "You must tell them that our leaders include Lillian Ngoyi, you must tell them that our leaders include Winnie Mandela because women are important in every revolution. To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. "You cannot claim victory if you don't tell the honest truth about how women have claimed this land," said Malema.      Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF) leader Julius Malema has arrived at a packed Caluza Sports Centre in Edendale, Pietermaritzburg, for EFF's Women's Day Celebration.@IOLPolitics @IOL #EFFWomensDayRally pic.twitter.com/GNVN22XF3M  — SAMKELO T.L MTSHALI (@Sam_Blaszczy6) 
 August 9, 2018  He added that many think that when women marched to the Union Buildings in 1956, they were doing so because they were refusing to carry the dompas. "That was not the real story, the women were saying: 'why do you want us to carry the dompas in our own land? This is my land and I will never be treated like a foreigner in my own land' " the leader of the red berets said. He said that the march was not about the dompas in isolation. "The Boers wanted to treat African people as if they are foreigners in South Africa and the women said 'no we're not foreigners here, this is our land, (Johannes G.) Strijdom take your dompas because we don't need it, we want free movement in our own land," says Malema. * Receive IOL's top stories via Whatsapp by sending your name to 0745573535. Politics Hub