Johannesburg - Vytjie Mentor, a witness at the state capture inquiry, says she fears for her safety and is not comfortable returning to her hotel. Mentor told chairperson of the commission deputy Chief Justice Raymond Zondo that she feared her hotel door has been tampered with. Her stay at the hotel was arranged by the commission. She was visibly afraid and cried as she recounted how a couple of days ago she suspected her hotel room did not lock properly. "I tested the door with my card key and it freely opened, but it gave me an impression that it was locked. I am worried to go back to a hotel room that I do not know if it is safe," said Mentor as she wiped tears from her eyes. Zondo was sympathetic to Mentor and told her that measures would be put in place to help her feel safe. "Thank you very much for bringing this to my attention. It is something quite serious. Your evidence implicates various people and they might have had nothing to do with anything, but you are concerned about your safety," said Zondo. On Tuesday, Mentor was giving testimony at the inquiry. The former ANC MP told the inquiry that she was offered the post of minister of public enterprises by Ajay Gupta if she helped stop SAA's route from Mumbai, India, to Johannesburg. She said Ajay told her that the family had a company, Jet airlines, that would take over the route once the SAA one falls away. Ajay Gupta had told her that former president Jacob Zuma had plans to reshuffle his cabinet and that then minister of public enterprises Barbara Hogan would be fired, said Mentor. Mentor also implicated Zuma in her testimony and said he was at the Gupta compound in Saxonworld when she was offered the position in 2010. She said Zuma was not disturbed when she told him that Ajay Gupta had offered her a ministerial post. She said Zuma instead calmed her down after discussion her with Ajay Gupta. Mentor continues her testimony on Wednesday morning. She will be followed by former GCIS CEO Themba Maseko. Politics Hub