In the aftermath of the Life Esidimeni tragedy, concerns were raised of possible human rights violations at The Tower Hospital in the Eastern Cape. And after the recent focus on stress levels in the medical field, Sasop voiced the need for medical professionals to be health advocates without being criticised or threatened if they do. Sasop president Professor Bernard Janse van Rensburg said that although medical and health professionals had an ethical duty and responsibility to act in the best interests of their patients, whistle-blowers were often criticised and harassed. “The reality of advocacy has resulted in some arguing that professionals as salaried government employees do not have the authority to engage in advocacy, and should rather adhere to the principle of the Public Service Act not to criticise employee policies and practice in the public domain. “Yet, this same legislation expects from health care providers to put the public interest first in the execution of their duties,” he said. Medical professionals were at the front lines of healthcare delivery and witness the direct impact on the lives of patients. Clinicians should use the mandate according to the Protected Disclosures Act (Act 26 of 2000) as amended last year, to speak out when patients’ human rights were violated, report incidents of malpractice, fraud, corruption, misadministration and management of facilities, as well as a lack of patient care and or neglect, added Van Rensburg. “Reporting on such wrongdoing promotes individual responsibility and organisational accountability. However, if left silent the clinician enables and contributes to a culture of impropriety. “It’s challenging for individuals to voice their concerns without being ostracised, and therefore we are empowering professionals by providing training on the systems in place for approaching the matter of health advocacy, how to report concerns and raise concern internally using the correct channels,” Van Rensburg said. To enable the awareness on advocacy, Sasop has partnered with the Rural Health Action Project (RHAP) to assist the society in training its members across the country on advocacy and considerations of legal and professional contexts in which different clinicians are working. The RHAP Voice Project has been implemented across four provinces so far and helps healthcare professionals understand the legal foundation of advocacy, as well as raising concerns on whistleblowing to improve standards using the channels available and the associated “protection” available to them.