In order to realise peace in our lifetime world leaders have to adopt a Declaration of Peace and Cessation of War (DPCW) at the next UN General Assembly, says Korean religious leader and peace advocate Man Hee Lee. As the chairperson of the of Heavenly Culture, World Peace, Restoration of Light (HWPL), Lee was speaking at the African Leaders of Peace Summit 2018: Achieving peace in our lifetime, held in Cape Town. This groundbreaking summit brought dignitaries, civil society, youth, religious leaders and media from across Africa together, who have been working towards fulfilling the goal of the conflict-free continent envisaged by the African Union’s Agenda 2063 and Silencing the Guns 2020. The centenary of Nelson Mandela and anti-apartheid activist Albertina Nontsikelelo Sisulu was also celebrated as these two stalwarts dedicated their lives to peace and freedom. Lee said he brought together 21 prominent international law experts from 15 different countries and appointed them as a International Law Peace Committee, who drafted the DPCW or law of peace. “The conflict in our world and the atrocities and loss of life has meant that there needed to be a comprehensive legal approach that guides citizens’ daily lives, regardless of their nationalities, ethnicities and religions, in accordance with the promotion of peace. "I have travelled from country to country and spoken to presidents to adopt the law of peace, as only two-thirds is needed to do so at the next UN general assembly,” said Lee. He said the presidents were public servants and had to do what the citizens wanted and peace is what the world citizens wanted. Lee said that for as long as he lived, he will work towards the adoption of the DPCW’s 10 articles and 38 clauses and the cessation of war. International Peace Youth Group (IPYG) director Peter Jung said a law of peace must be established to prevent wars and also address religious conflicts and emphasise the importance of education. The religious leader was presented with the DPCW signed by Seychelles President Danny Faure, which, along with Swaziland, were the first countries to sign the law of peace. Lee was then handed a separate DPCW handed to him by City of Cape Town councillor Mzwakhe Nqavashe‏. Nqavashe‏ saidi in order to achieve peace in South Africa, the government has been working together with IPYG and taking areas of violence and transforming them into peace zones. “The city has 116 wards, many of which have areas of crime, violence and terror, and we have started a pilot project with IPYG to create safe parks and zones. "Like we did in Gugulethu, which this year marks the 60th year of this township's establishment by the previous regime,” said Nqavashe‏. He said through this small action residents have noticeable drop in crime in the area.