A man, who refused to identify himself and said he was responding on behalf of lodge owner Elsabe Rabe, vehemently denied any evictions, saying no notices were given to any farmworkers on Friday. “No evictions took place on Friday. No notices were given to anyone on the premises. This is not a farm, but a commercial property. As a result, we have never employed farmworkers,” an email response read. The response further said the premises “is not a farm, but a country lodge and liquor outlet”. Women On Farms Project co-director Carmen Louw said Rabe’s denial that evictions took place “is a lie”. “One of the men who were evicted, Shaba Johnson, lived in a one-room structure on a part of the land from which the guest lodge operates. “On Friday we were alerted to unlawful evictions, in which we assisted. The structure in which Johnson lived was closed up and all his belongings were thrown out. He currently sleeps outside,” Louw said. Another elderly couple who are long-term occupiers on the same land were told they had to be out at the end of the month. “Mary Jackson, 74, and her husband were woken up in the middle of Thursday night and threatened with eviction. They instructed them to leave the farm by the end of the month. None of these occupiers has legal eviction orders against them. “We contacted the police to inform them of the illegal evictions happening, but they would not assist with the lodging of criminal charges. These evictions are unlawful,” she said. According to Simondium Guest Lodge, “there has been an application at the local magistrate’s court for an eviction order for Freddie Filoti”. According to Louw, Rabe instructed private contractors to close up the window of Filoti’s house, “creating a safety risk and obstructing light from entering”. “There is a farm evictions crisis which the government is simply not taking seriously. Every day, across the country, farm dwellers are being evicted - sometimes legally, but often illegally. “Farm dwellers are calling for an urgent moratorium on farm evictions. (Then) deputy president Ramaphosa gave such an undertaking to farm dwellers in 2014. Now that you are president, deliver on your promise,” Louw said.  chevon.booysen@inl.co.za 