The play’s title is taken from gang terminology, and refers to a gang leader, “Die Glas”, and one of his highest-ranked members, “Die Draad”. Richards’s father, Ruben, runs the Ruben Richards Foundation, a non-profit organisation that works with gangs, and to research the play Richards spent a considerable amount of time with gang leaders. He subsequently performed in productions at the now-defunct Rosebank Theatre and did two stints at Maynardville in Shakespeare productions. Along the way, Mike van Graan cast him in his satirical series, which began with Pay Back the Curry, which jibed at the political landscape and quoted liberally from the Bard and was directed by Rob van Vuuren. The latest in the series is Land Acts. In between, Richards did spots as a stand-up comic at The Cape Town Funny Festival. He went into full-on musical theatre mode with The Fugard Theatre’s West Side Story and Marc Lottering’s Aunty Merle: the Musical. Now he’s in Shakespeare in Love - a rom-com which features a stunner of a cast, including Robyn Scott, who won a Fleur du Cap for her role as the feisty Elizabeth I in season one of the production. Safe to say that nothing is “safe” for Daniel Mpilo Richards. He brings an edginess, a steely sense of danger to every role - a visceral presence - using his body as an instrument. In tandem with musicals and work in mainstream and commercial theatre, his work as a cultural activist continues, as creative director for The Rubens Richards Foundation. Richards talks to us about his new role. How are you approaching your role as Will in ‘Shakespeare in Love’? I feel very honoured to be taking on this role at this early stage in my career. I think I have developed a reputation of versatility as an actor - a goal my father helped me set during my university days. He would always ask me, “So what kind of actor are you going to be?” There is no doubt that people do a double-take when they see my brown face (representing) the title character in William Shakespeare. It breaks the mould and it feels great! Allows me to surprise my audiences. In many ways, I think I’m evidence of the fact that there is no substitute for hard work and dedication. The honing of my skills and craftsmanship I’ve committed to in my daily life has put me beyond the “type cast”. With versatility as a goal, every day I dedicate time to maintaining and strengthening my skills, including my body. People mistake my obsession with exercise as a self-indulgent act to look good, when in fact it is all about the skill and ability to control my body - voice, face, mouth, tongue, muscles - and mind. It is this exercise regime, among others, that has afforded, and opened up, opportunities like playing the role of William Shakespeare or Bernardo in West Side Story. Shakespeare has featured a lot in your career, at the Maynardville theatre in Mike van Graan’s satirical use of the Bard, and now this rom-com - was Shakespeare always on your radar? Funny enough, back when I started my studies at UCT, I remember saying to my mother, “I’ll never do Shakespeare!” Learning about Shakespeare and reading some of the plays at school was hellishly boring. So I maintained this deep loathing towards the Bard’s plays throughout my studies, despite having to do monologues and scenes from his plays. As fate would have it, my first production outside of university... Richard III! I found myself at the Maynardville Open-Air Theatre for the first time and fell in love with the tradition. Then working with Mike and finding the comedy in Mike’s versions of Shakespeare alongside Rob van Vuuren was so refreshing and mesmerisingly engaging. I found a new respect for the complexity of the Bard’s writing. This respect was born out of the discovery of comedy and tragedy existing in the same piece of text - something Mike does exceptionally well. Shakespeare’s timeless writing has grown on me. When I visited the UK last year, I even went out of my way to go and experience Stratford-upon-Avon. Finally, any reflections on your role in ‘Shakespeare in Love’ being staged in Africa, far from Hollywood? Being Will Shakespeare in Shakespeare in Love, staged in Africa, tells me that I can be any character anywhere. It is no longer about the outward looks. It’s about skill, passion and the drive to want to do it. Shakespeare is a hustler - in the good sense. A mover-and-shaker, an opportunity maker. Much like myself. Will might as well have grown up on the Cape Flats, where hustle is the oxygen you breathe to survive. * Shakespeare in Love is on at The Fugard Theatre from August 14 to October 6, Tuesday to Friday at 8pm, and Saturdays at 3pm and 8pm. Tickets are R150 to R350. Bookings through The Fugard Theatre box office on 021 461 4554 or at www.thefugard.com