The appointment of Lis Lange, a white candidate from Argentina was met with outrage, with activists saying she did not meet the equity requirements nor key criteria as advertised for the post. In the looming legal battle, Ramugondo is being support by the Black Academic Caucus (BAC) at UCT. UCT management maintains that in making its decision, the selection committee agreed that only one candidate - Lange - met sufficient criteria to be appointed. The BAC said Lange had been appointed over Ramugondo, one of UCT’s own highly-qualified and senior black academics. Ramugondo had been UCT vice-chancellor and principal Dr Max Price’s special adviser on transformation. Ramugondo told the Cape Times on Monday she was consulting with lawyers on the matter. “We had alerted the council of the university to the fact that we saw problems with the process. And if they were to continue, we would proceed to go the courts,” she said. BAC member Roshan Galvaan said the caucus had been engaging with the university on the selection process. “The decision to take legal action follows no change in process from the university’s side. “We want this appointment to be reversed. Professor Ramagondo was found 'unappointable'. We haven’t been given reasons for her to be seen as unappointable.” UCT spokesperson Elijah Moholola said the media office was not aware of any formal notification forwarded to the university on this matter. “We understand that the unsuccessful candidate intends taking legal action. As this would then become subject to legal proceedings, we wish to not comment any further than we have on this matter,” he said. In previous statements on the appointment, Price said UCT follows an especially rigorous process in the selection of candidates to senior leadership posts within the institution. “It is worth reminding ourselves that a selection committee has access to confidential referees’ reports, and an in-depth interview as well as the confidential feedback from the audiences that listened to the candidates’ presentations. None of this is available to the senate, the public or the BAC,” he said. “The BAC’s argument also assumes that a white person cannot drive a transformation agenda. We reject this view and in this particular case, Associate Professor Lange has years of experience in transformation in other universities and across the sector as a whole,” Price said.  lisa.isaacs@inl.co.za 