The Western Cape Education Department (WCED) said it was investigating the allegations after claims were revealed on Twitter. The staffer has since been suspended. Department spokesperson Millicent Merton said: “An investigation is under way.” She said the police had been informed. This came after a Twitter user first posted about the allegations last week. The user’s initial post directed to the school’s management requested that the staff member be taken to the police ‘‘or hell will break loose. He has been having sex with multiple school girls in uniform. I’ve videos & Pix (sic)”. A follow-up post warned staff and the suspended member to take the warning seriously. Earlier this week, the user again alluded to videos and pictures in his possession. He said they showed the suspended staff member engaging in sexual acts with learners. The post was accompanied by various pictures of the employee with other individuals believed to be pupils of Fairmount Secondary and another high school in the Grassy Park area. The faces in the pictures were covered with emojis. The post was met with shock and horror by the online community, with some users calling for the immediate jailing of the staff member. Others called for the department to ban him from teaching. Department of Social Development spokesperson Sihle Ngobese also responded to the Twitter conversation last week, saying the allegations were serious and asking for more information to be furnished. “I’d forwarded this matter to our WCED colleagues once I’d become aware of it on social media,” Ngobese said. Education MEC Debbie Schafer also participated on the social media conversation, saying: “It doesn’t say teacher but secretary. Either way unacceptable, but we are looking into it urgently.” In another response to the Twitter conversation on Monday, Schafer said: “We are investigating as I said. Waiting for feedback from district.” School principal Terrence Klaassen said he was informed about the allegations on Tuesday last week. “Unfortunately, I cannot comment. This was brought to my attention but we have referred the matter to the WCED, who will conduct their investigation,” Klaassen said. Police said they had not received a criminal case yet. Cape Times