The families were last week overjoyed after retired deputy chief justice Dikgang Moseneke presented his final report on the Alternative Dispute Resolution and awarded more than R250 million to 144 families of psychiatric patients who died when they were moved from Life Esidimeni facilities to unregistered NGOs. The compensation will also be awarded to about 68 survivors of the so-called Gauteng mental health marathon project. Moseneke gave each family R1-million for constitutional damages, R180000 for trauma and shock and R20000 for funeral expenses, all which should be paid within three months. The money excludes the claimants’ legal fees and counselling which are expected to also run into millions. Moseneke also ordered the erection of a monument to remember the victims. Reacting to this, Zille took to Twitter on Monday,saying: It is good that the families of the Life Esidimeni victims have received a measure of justice and compensation. I would like an answer to this question: What did they do, before these tragic deaths, to raise the alarm about their loved ones starving + living in profound neglect?   Her tweet was met with a backlash, with some users saying she was insensitive and was once again embarrassing herself. In a subsequent tweet explaining herself, Zille said: “Nowhere have I blamed any victim. I have said that compensation was right and just. I am just asking totally rational questions that any half-awake newspaper reader would ask, because these questions deserve answers.” One user pointed out to Zille that many of the families had asked questions, but were were ignored and that their stories also came out in the hearings led by Moseneke. Zille replied: “Well I’m afraid they were not prominently reported in any of the reports I read.” DA federal executive chairperson James Selfe said: “The party views Premier Zille’s tweets as unfortunate and insensitive, but this was done in terms of her personal capacity. This does not transgress the party’s code of conduct.” Section27, which represented some of the families during the hearing, expressed shock at Zille’s comments, saying had she done more research as a public representative and premier, she would have seen the efforts the families had made before the move in 2015. The organisation’s spokesperson, Ngqabutho Mpofu, said: If Premier Zille had taken a look at that (research), she would have been able to see things were done before, and it’s unfortunate because she is an influencer on Twitter." He called on Zille to publicly apologise to the families. Welhemina Thejane, sister of Daniel Charles Josiah, 42 who was among those who died, said Zille should apologise for thinking the families of the Esidimeni victims never did anything when their loved ones were starving and neglected. “We complained and when the health department would not hear our complaints I personally went to the newspapers to expose what was happening. Weeks later other families came forward and told their stories as well. It is wrong to suggest that we did nothing and not only once, but many times, countless times,” she told the Cape Times. “She is a public figure, to say what she said. The DA was quiet and did nothing all these times, even when the tragedy had become public and everyone knowing about it. No one supported us even in the arbitration. I am not talking about financial support but moral and emotional support. Approached for comment, Zille’s spokesperson Michael Mpofu referred the Cape Times to a column the premier wrote following her tweet. In it Zille said: “People sometimes accuse me of having an empathy deficit. They are profoundly wrong. I have enough empathy to know hand-wringing does not cut it. Asking the right questions and taking the hard decisions, does. Taking personal responsibility does. Having a capable, competent and efficient department does. “This means appointing the right MEC to head the department and the right professionals in the right positions, who are dedicated enough to go way beyond the call of duty, tooth-combing an entire province to find unlicensed facilities to make sure they are brought up to scratch. That is real care, not sentimentality.”neglect?” Cape Times