The 49th edition of the world’s “most beautiful marathon” will take place on March31. Fortune intends to make a big impact with his participation. Fortune, who has been the high school principal for 14 years, has appealed to the public to contribute in whichever way they can. This is the third year Fortune is participating in the marathon - two of which were half marathons - and now dedicates his first 56km marathon to Christel House pupils. Christel House is a non-profit school serving impoverished communities in Cape Town. All of its students are transported daily from Khayelitsha, Langa and Philippi to Christel House using 18 school buses. On average, each bus travels 800km a month and the school is in need of a new bus to serve more children in new communities.   “Children born into Cape Town’s poverty-stricken communities have all the odds stacked against them. Without a helping hand, they face a lifetime of physical and psychological trauma - illiteracy, malnutrition, disease, low self-esteem and lack of opportunity. At Christel House, we provide hope and help to break the cycle of poverty for our students, their families and their communities,” Fortune said. He likens the tough Omtom race to the difficult and sometimes unbearable circumstances the students have to endure in their daily lives. “I am going to run this race for each student - I run to change their circumstances. I have a choice to put myself through these tough elements, our kids don’t,” Fortune said. Five more teachers from Christel House will also  participate in the half marathon in support of this fund-raising drive. General manager of Omtom, Carol Vosloo, said they look forward to the sold-out 27000 participant event. “We are once again looking forward to welcoming the sold-out field of participants in the ultra and half marathons next Saturday,” Vosloo said. For the second year running, the event will deploy its #GoGreen waste management and anti-littering campaign, in collaboration with Old Mutual and Wildlands. Omtom will also be doing its bit for water conservation and helping fight the water crisis in the province. Through a comprehensive action plan and implementing a range of water-saving and alternative water-sourcing initiatives, the event is essentially off the grid. No municipal water will be used at any of the Omtom events, and water for Race Day has been sourced from the Newlands spring, with an allocated and approved dispensation from relevant stakeholders, including the Department of Water and Sanitation. Anyone wishing to donate to the school can visit https://www.givengain.com/cc/busdrivechsa/  chevon.booysen@inl.co.za 