They were received by mayor Patricia de Lille, SA Navy Rear Admiral (JG) EM Masanabo, High Commissioner of India to South Africa Ruchira Kamboj, the Consul General of India in Cape Town and defence adviser of the High Commission of India Captain Manjit M Thomas. Capetonians also made their way to the V&A Waterfront to welcome the crew, as did members of the Indian diaspora and pupils of St Paul’s Primary School. The crew’s day of arrival coincided with the festival of Holi which was celebrated around the the world. Holi, the festival of colours, signifies the victory of good over evil, and the coincidence was seen to appropriately celebrate the accomplishment of the crew members and their grit, determination and perseverance. The festival was celebrated with a splash of colours and dash of drums. INSV Tarini will berth in Cape Town until March 14, and crew members will have several engagements, including formal calls on local leadership and interaction with students of UWC. De Lille said it was a great honour to welcome the first Indian all-women crew. “These young women are not only an inspiration to women from India, but to thousands of Capetonians and women across the world. It shows that when women are given the opportunity, they can achieve anything they want with hard work. “In total the Indian crew will cover a distance of 21600 nautical miles and do it without any engine for propulsion. On their return to India they will cross the equator for the second time. “Less than 200 years ago, many women from India came to the Cape but never crossed the equator for a second time to return to India. “They were enslaved by the Dutch and English and brought to Cape Town’s shores to work hard labour. “It is this hurtful history that will always bind us as two nations through our shared heritage,” De Lille said. The public is invited to an inauguration of a special photo exhibition covering the historic voyage of the INSV Tarini. This will be at the Main Hall, Royal Cape Yacht Club, Duncan Road, Table Bay Harbour from 3pm to 4.30pm on Monday..