Mdzananda Animal Clinic said one of their staff members was driving to the mobile clinic in Khayelitsha when he saw what appeared to be a burning animal in the road. He turned back to investigate and saw a resident pushing at an animal with a stick. “He immediately climbed out to try save the animal, but the animal, then identified as a cat, had already died. "After confronting the culprit, he called our team up the road to assist as the culprit and supporting community members were verbally aggressive and did not listen to him,” the clinic said. Fundraising and communications manager Marcelle du Plessis said a woman had admitted to setting the cat alight. “As soon as our staff member called us, I ran down the street to where the incident occurred. Three management team members and two other staff members joined me. "A group of five ladies were gathered around the body. "The youngest woman, whose name is unknown to me but who I can identify and of whom I took a photograph, advised me in the presence of my colleagues and several neighbours that she had burnt the cat." Du Plessis said they asked the woman why she had set the cat alight, and she apparently said it had been sitting on her roof for two days, and made a noise which disturbed her sleep. “When we asked why she hadn’t called on us to help with the problem, she said it was looking at her with ‘snake eyes’ and that it was evil. She said people in the community were using cats to do witchcraft to destroy people’s lives,” Du Plessis said. A laboratory report indicates that the cat was burnt alive. The clinic urged residents to stand up against animal cruelty and report any signs of animal abuse or neglect. “The Mdzananda Animal Clinic appeals to community members to rather call Mdzananda or the SPCA to assist with any animal cases instead of taking matters into their own hands,” said the organisation. The Mdzananda Animal Clinic can be reached on 021 367 6001 or 082 251 0554, and the SPCA on 021 700 4159/8 or 083 326 1604 for after-hours emergencies.