A  satellite police station was set alight as well as a vehicle belonging to law enforcement officers. Shops were also looted during the violence. Police confirmed yesterday they had increased deployment in the area and that public order police had been brought in to assist. Overberg police commander brigadier, Donovan Heilbron,  said the protest began on Friday after residents' attempts to invade land were stopped and their structures dismantled. “More than 25 people have been arrested and charged for public violence after they were captured on camera. "Over the weekend protesters set fire to the local library, a structure at a recycling site, a law enforcement vehicle and yesterday(Monday) our satellite police station was also targeted and set alight,” said Heilbron. The damage to the police station had not yet been assessed and criminal elements had taken advantage of the situation by stealing from spaza shops during the chaos. Heilbron said public order police had been deployed on Sunday and would remain on high alert until the  situation was calm. Zwelihle residents became enraged when Red Ants security personnel were called in to dismantle illegal structures and evict people from land they had occupied on Friday. They  protested outside the municipal offices vowing not to be evicted.   On Monday, Overberg Municipal Mayor Dudley Coetzee and DA Western Cape spokesperson on Local Government, Masizole Mnqasela, addressed community members. “One piece of land, a tiny strip that is earmarked for recreational [use], another already a housing  development site, have now been halted due to the unrest. The other was a former dumping site, but due to the health risks people cannot occupy it and the cost to remove the hazardous materials would be in the region of R60 million,” said municipal manager Coenie Groenewald. He said  all this and the housing developments were explained to the community. He added that a meeting was  scheduled for Tuesday but could only take place once calm had been restored in Zwelihle. But a resident said they were tired of waiting for housing. “While we wait for the municipality, our landlords want us out to build flats so they can get more rent. Nobody is speaking to us. ‘‘The councillor ran away because now there is violence. ‘‘They must help us because we want homes,” he said, adding that he welcomed any meetings or talks that would resolve their issues.  dominic.adriaanse@inl.co.za 