Brackenfell resident Alexander Villette, 23, completed his studies through the help of the non-profit organisation founded by Fatima Jakoet, one of a few female pilots at the SAA. Jakoet said it was a vision come into fruition through all the hard work and community upliftment that Villette went through. “The NPO helps to develop kids in the aviation industry through scholarship funds and support with academies, such as the Morningstar Flight Academy. Alex is the very first student who went through the whole process. "He passed the interview phase and medical fitness test. "He did this all by himself, through all the struggling and (still) helping in his community. Do you know that he actually raised funds and hired a plane for the kids at Young Falcon, his former school? "It is like a day in history for us all. He is a star student. He gives back and it says a lot about his character.” Villette completed more than 200 hours of flying before he received the licence yesterday, and he did it with style in a Mooney Aircraft. Villette thanked Jakoet and the Sakhikamva Foundation, the instructors from the Morningstar Flight Academy, his family and friends for the support. “I am grateful for all the leadership and guidance. The next phase now is to complete my instructors' course.” Samantha Gie, a female pilot with over 20 years' experience and a volunteer at the foundation, said the aviation club had more than 20 students, including 12 in the maths and science programme. “I am very proud of Alex. These are momentous occasions and it is really a fantastic feeling. It's a massive achievement and Fatima worked so hard.” Villette’s proud father, Douglas Villette, said: “Besides being very nervous, it's a very proud moment for us. "Since a young age it's been a journey for him. We cannot afford to put him through flight school, but we cannot afford not to try.” His overjoyed mother, Sharon Villette, said: "I'm extremely proud of him. We are extremely grateful to Sakhikamva and the academy. "He is very humble in following his dream. His success can send out a message to anyone to follow their dream.”