The research company said when the results of 28 countries are considered, this is the second most important issue (28%) in the world, while sexual harassment tops the international list (32%). In total, 19 428 were interviewed across 28 countries around the world including South Africa, via the Ipsos Online Panel system. The study was released yesterday as the world marked International Women’s Day under the theme: Now is the time. “Looking at the worldwide figures, South Africa’s figures for mentioning domestic abuse and access to sanitary products as important issues are the highest in the world. “A rather dubious honour in both cases,” said the organisation. “People in all 28 countries overestimate the scale of violence women experience from partners, and South African women say that 62 out of every 100 women experience sexual violence from a spouse or partner. “The figure for South African men is 51. In fact, 13% of South African women experience such abuse,” it said. The position of women in the workplace and high office was highlighted from a number of angles. “Whereas only 3% of the executive officers of the world’s 500 largest companies are women, South Africans reckoned that this figure was closer to 16%. In this we are no different from the rest of the world - who were also overestimating the real business success of women. “Of the 28 countries included in the survey, currently 44% of Swedish MPs are women, the figure in Mexico is 43% and South Africa’s figure is 40%. In the rest of the world, far fewer women are part of political decision-making,” found the study. The SA Human Rights Commission said while South Africa had made great strides in advancing women’s rights, the 2016 Demographic and Health Survey revealed that 17% of women aged 18 to 24 had experienced violence from a partner within a 12-month period before the survey. “International Women’s Day recognises the global struggle for women’s rights. ‘‘Now, more than ever before, there is a heightened awareness of the myriad ways in which women’s rights are routinely violated by sexual harassment, violence, femicide, unequal pay and disproportionate political representation of women,” the commission’s spokesperson, Gail Smith, said. Under the campaign theme #PressforProgress, the Minister of Women in the Presidency, Bathabile Dlamini, committed herself to “the revival of the national gender machinery in order to accelerate the department’s mandate of socio-economic empowerment of women and, among others, have a co-ordinated approach to addressing issues of women”. South Africa needed to focus on women as human beings with human rights and unmet needs, she said. “Gender mainstreaming should be prioritised and all government entities should, for instance, have clear and concrete plans to address and accelerate the socio-economic empowerment of women while taking into cognisance that women are not homogeneous,” Dlamini said. Albert Fritz, Western Cape MEC for Social Development, said: “As we commemorate International Women’s Day, the department calls on all women who are experiencing abuse to get help and report abuse.” Cape Times