The allegations came from disgruntled members of the community, following the exclusion of prominent women Jewish leaders - the standing vice-chairperson, Bev May, and the former chairperson of the Cape Board, Li Boiskin. This led to the board setting up an independent panel to probe the allegations. Women of the Jewish community had also written an open letter in August 2017 expressing their “distress” that the only two people voted off the board were the two respected women leaders. In its findings, the panel had considered declaring the election invalid, but advised that the board’s constitution was in urgent need of 
revision and that it would be “counter-productive” to have a new election using the old constitution. The panel found that there were insufficient internal controls over the entire voting process. The voting process itself was flawed in that there were discrepancies between the number of ballots cast and the number of voters who attended, according to the attendance registers, said the panel. In addition there was inadequate and inaccurate record keeping and other voting irregularities. The voting took place on the basis of an outdated and inequitable delegate representation list, with certain affiliates being given the vote contrary to constitutional requirements The panel found that a former member of the board, the outgoing chairperson, had engineered a delegate substitution. That resulted in his son acting as a delegate and casting a vote which was irregular and unauthorised. The panel stated that this “misconduct” had been dealt with and further action was not required. The panel recommended that Boiskin and May serve as full members of the board with immediate effect until its tenure expired in 2019. May said she welcomed the findings of the panel and was overwhelmed by the response she and Boiskin received. “It’s a double win actually having the board’s constitution and the electorate process reviewed, as this would result in a better representation of our entire Jewish community within its leadership,” said May. She said that the exclusion of Boiskin was the most shocking, considering the respect she held in the Jewish community. Approached for comment by the Cape Times, Boiskin declined. The Cape Jewish Board of Deputies chairperson, Rael Kaimowitz, said the Cape Board was committed to implementing and abiding by the panel’s findings.