Donovan May, who held the rank of ‘Fighting Judge’ in the 26's gang at the Mossel Bay Youth Correctional Centre, admitted to murder and was sentenced to an effective 25 years imprisonment. May entered into a plea and sentencing agreement wherein he admitted to being a gangster; the murder of Bradley Teyise; and attempting to kill Thembelani Quaga. In his plea May said two rival gangs - 26s and 28s, shared a common cell at the youth centre, and they divided their beds "in order to keep members of the two gangs apart." Things turned sour when, on March 29 2016, a cellphone, a radio and dagga were stolen from the ‘26’ gang. “Shortly after supper, and after the inmates returned to the common cell, the accused and other members of the ‘26’ gang launched an attack on unsuspecting members of the ‘28’ gang. The ‘26’ used sharp and blunt objects on gang members in the attack that lasted until correctional services officials arrived at the scene," May said. The National Prosecuting Authority (NPA) said in a statement May confessed that he killed Teyise by stabbing him in the neck and inflicted other stab wounds on his body with a sharp object. He further confessed that he stabbed Quaga with a sharp aluminium self-made knife and that he intended to cause him serious bodily harm. The NPA said May was accused six in the matter State vs Moses Pakaan and ten others. 
His co - accused were Pakaan, Ricardo van Zyl, Zander Alexander, Winston Waldach, Jason Bothma, Hein Piedt, Jean Pierre Botha, Roland Jantjies, Geswin Jantjies and Henrico Lindt.
They are charged with one count of being a member of a gang, two counts of murder and seven counts of attempted murder. "Prosecutors in this matter, Advocate Nicolette Bell and Michelle Weyers, argued in court papers that the offences were serious. Teyise was a 20-year-old young man, Quaga was 22-years-old, the incident was a prison gang attack and that the accused had previous convictions of robbery. They argued that mitigating factors in favour of the accused were that he was pleading guilty, showed remorse and the matter was finalised in a plea and sentencing agreement that spared the court and the State the expense and inconvenience of a protracted trial,"the NPA said. NPA spokesperson Eric Ntabazalila said they welcomed the sentence.