De Lille also wants her disciplinary hearing, which starts tomorrow, to be led by an “independent and impartial person so that we have a fair process”. And she wants one of the panel members, Sheila Camerer, a former deputy minister of justice during the apartheid era, to recuse herself. “The party is yet to respond to this demand from our side. We will ask for Camerer to recuse herself. Apart from her past, she is neither competent nor suitable to hear the matter. “To the best of my knowledge, she hasn’t practised law in decades and she is a known political opponent,” said De Lille. The DA failed to remove De Lille when it tabled a motion of no confidence in her. That was after the ANC in the City made an about-turn and withdrew its motion on De Lille, saying it won’t allow the DA to use its motion for factional battles. “A key consideration in my disciplinary matter is - given the widespread coverage and public interest in this matter - whether the public and media will be allowed access to the hearing. “My lawyers have emphasised to the party that I can only restore my reputation if the public is able to view and assess for themselves whether the process is fair,” said De Lille. The DA wanted a closed hearing, she said. It was “not true” that she was accused of covering up corruption perpetrated by City officials. DA federal council chairperson James Selfe said the hearing had been set down for four days after months of several serious allegations and claims against De Lille, which have been levelled at her by members of her own party colleagues. Selfe told the Cape Times yesterday that the DA’s practice in conducting disciplinary hearings is that “they ought ordinarily to be held without the media being present”. “This is to prevent grandstanding by the accused and witnesses alike,” Selfe said. He said the panel hearing the matter “must still decide whether to grant the application”. Selfe said it was never said that De Lille was facing corruption charges, but charges of “interfering in staff selection processes, and of 
condoning and covering up maladministration”. He said it was possible that further charges might be put to De Lille. “Ms Camerer was appointed deputy minister of justice by president (Nelson) Mandela, and is currently a practising attorney,” said Selfe. “It seems that Ms De Lille has a challenge when it comes to telling the truth.”