“It remains a notifiable disease until declared otherwise. As it stands, the Western Cape has 115 confirmed cases reported to the Provincial CDC for the years 2017 and 2018. A total of 77% (88/115) are from various areas within the Cape Metro and 29 deaths (25%) have been reported to date,” said Health MEC Nomafrench Mbombo. She urged the public to look for signs and symptoms of listeriosis which include: Fever, muscle aches. gastroenteritis (nausea and/or diarrhoea). fatigue and a decrease or loss of appetite. “We would also like to encourage the public to continue to practice good basic hygiene, as well as food preparation hygiene. Several recalls of contaminated products have been actioned but we urge the public to refrain from consuming these goods,” she said. In light of the discovery of the source of listeriosis, which has claimed more 100 lives around the country, the Cape Times took to streets, to hear what people had to say. Many locals acknowledged hearing about it and expressed concern. Clarence Guest from Blue Downs said: “My fear is that these products are dangerous so I am actually never going to buy them again.” A restaurant manager, who did not want to be named, said consumers had asked questions and were worried for their safety. He said they had recalled all Enterprise and Rainbow products from their stores. “This is going to affect the business in a big way because people are not going to buy these products again,” he said. Boikanyo Maboa said she heard that the disease was “deadly” with “27% of those infected already dying”. “Luckily, I used to eat cold meats but I don't eat a lot of cold meats any more.” Lynette Martin, from Bishop Lavis, said she heard the news via social media. “We got the messages on a WhatsApp group. But I was never a fan of the Enterprise brand anyway. "Now I won't allow my family to eat it either. "The warnings are all over the news that we need to be careful, so we must look out for each other,” she said. Delft resident Clarecia Benjamin added: “I am definitely scared, I am not going to eat the stuff any more.” “My fear is getting sick and dying because you never know what can happen.” Lazola Matomela, from Eerste River, said it had been three years since he ate a vienna gatsby and he would not be eating one again any time soon. “It is worrying. Since I heard about this I won’t eat it again. He added that parents should “watch what they put on their children’s bread”. nicola daniels@inl.co.za