Cape Town - The family of slain former ANC provincial executive committee (PEC) member Elese Depouche has raised concerns over their safety after he was gunned down outside his Crossroads home. Depouche was killed on Tuesday. Police spokesperson Noloyiso Rwexana said Depouche was in his car with his wife, Nobuntu, when two assailants fired several shots at them. “Both victims were transported to hospital for medical treatment; the 50-year-old man succumbed to his injuries. "Cases of murder and attempted murder are being investigated,” she said. Nobuntu was injured in the arm. She was subsequently discharged from hospital. Read: Former Cape Town councillor shot dead at his home Depouche was a controversial figure in local politics. Three years ago he was removed from the city council after he was found guilty of pointing a firearm at an elderly lady. Last year, he was sighted among those who protested against the alleged exclusion of some branches in the ANC’s Dullah Omar leadership, who were in support of former presidential hopeful Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma. An attempt on his life was made in 2002, when he was attacked by gunmen while dropping his children at a crèche in Gugulethu. Yonki Rasayi, his nephew, said Depouche’s 14-year-old daughter was traumatised by the incident. She was opening the gate for her father to park the car when the assailants shot him. “It was about 12 shots,” said Rasayi. “The family is certainly feeling unsafe as this happened outside his house. "We are not even sure why these people targeted him, we don’t know whether it was politically motivated or otherwise,” he said. Rasayi said the family knew of a hit placed on him last year. “We thought things had died down seeing that nothing happened. "This incident comes as a shock to us now,” he said. ANC councillors have requested the safety and social services portfolio committee put out a reward for any one who has information that will help police arrest the suspects. The provincial SA National Civic Organisation expressed its condolences. Cape Argus