The team of seven - Toni Andrews, Kyle Maier, Sebastian Kristiansen, Kelly McCarter, Kent Mayne, Tyler Solomon and Dayaan Abarder  -  worked on the film for nine months as part of their third and final-year project at The Animation School in 2016. The story follows a wooden father as he struggles to support his metal child who consumes wood to survive.  As the boy grows older so does his rate of consumption. The day comes when he brings their home to the ground. They end up with nothing. The underlying themes are that of parental sacrifice and sustainable energy. Production manager Andrews said: “It was a tribute from our writer and director Kelly McCarter to her parents who gave everything so she could have everything.” Andrews received the award with McCarter on Saturday. “Can you say starstruck, 
it was bigger than any festival I’ve been to and it was pretty epic. "Everyone was kitted out, so it felt quite special." She said the highlight was the “acknowledgement from industry". "It was our first proper film and we competed against live action films. It feels really good." Hewn was the only animated film to win an award. The film-makers also received a World Gold Medal in the Best Student Film Category at the New York Festivals International Television & Film Awards last year as well as Best Story and Best Art Direction at the Cape Town International Animation Festival in the same year. Abarder, from Athlone, who is the director of photography, said: “I was blown away to hear we'd won, I was literally screaming at the TV. I am so proud of the team. "We worked so hard. There were weeks we only slept for two hours a night, working day in and day out. It feels really good to know our hard work paid off.” The team were hopeful that audiences would like the film but said the triumph surpassed their expectations. Hewn currently has 985205 views on YouTube. The team have a WhatsApp group and every now and then someone will post a screen shot of the number of people who viewed their film. All seven crew members are employed full-time by various studios, but plan on making another independent film in their free time. “We work so well together; we really wanna make another personal project in our free time. In a couple of weeks, we'll have a reunion where we'll talk about it,” Andrews said.