Nearly 600000 women died in 2016, more than double the number of men during the same period, said the Atlas, which collates global and country-based tobacco statistics and is published every three years. More men smoke worldwide, but many women get exposed via their partners. A recent South African study of two communities in the Western Cape found that over a third of the pregnant women in Mbekweni township - 200 out of 584 - were exposed to passive smoking. Researchers at the Drakenstein Child Health Study found the high rate of passive smokers was a function of overcrowding and more people sleeping in a room in single households. “We were alarmed by the high household tobacco smoke exposure and that 18% of infants were born with urine nicotine levels suggestive of active smoking,” said researcher Dr Aneesa Vanker. “Despite, strict anti-tobacco smoking laws, smoking in homes is uncontrolled." Home environments are the main places where women and children are exposed to nicotine gases, said Atlas, and people from lower socio-economic groups and non-smoking women are particularly at risk. The Atlas shows that in 2016 there were about  884000 second-hand smoke-related deaths in the world, while more than 6 million people die every year from smoking tobacco. Tobacco smoke exposure is linked to many serious health problems and in severe instances, death. Some notable effects are among young children and unborn babies, as respiratory diseases caused by passive smoke contribute substantially to mortality and morbidity. Despite daily smoking being the highest among male smokers in countries with medium to high incomes, there has been a steady increase in prevalence in low-income sub-Saharan African countries. This figure is likely to increase in other low-income countries because of income growth and increasing cigarette affordability. Senior policy adviser at World Health Organisation Professor Judith Mackay says Africa has become a target. “The industry is manipulating public opinion to gain appearance of respectability, fabricating support through front groups and exaggerating the economic importance of the industry." - Health-e News