The 41-year-old was last seen on February 26 and every effort made by concerned family and friends to locate her has been in vain. A case of a missing person was opened at Randfontein police station. Kunene’s colleagues noticed something was amiss when she failed to arrive for an appointment to ferry them to a workshop she had arranged. She also did not deliver food to the shelter for abused women and children, a task she had carried out without fail since 2005. Kunene is a deputy director at the West Rand-based NGO, A Re Ageng Social Services. The organisation runs two shelters for abused women and children located in Bekkersdal and Simunye townships. It also operates six victim empowerment centres located in police stations in the far West Rand, servicing victims of rape, domestic violence and other criminal offences. A Re Ageng has been embroiled in a long-running litigious case involving money laundering, corruption and abuse of power. Judgments were handed down in favour of A Re Ageng in the South Gauteng High Court in March and October last year, respectively . Both judgments highlighted blatant abuse of power and the irregular manner in which the Gauteng provincial and regional departments of Social Development used unwitting conduits to transfer millions destined for Life Esidimeni’s account through Life Recovery Centre, according to a statement issued on behalf of A Re Ageng. “In October 2016, A Re Ageng refused to act as a conduit when R10 million mysteriously landed in its account for onward transfer to Life Esidimeni under a service level agreement entered into by the department and Life Recovery Centre which the department claimed was under one management. “The refusal resulted in the NGO and its directors being repeatedly victimised, including being threatened with the closure of all the above-mentioned programmes. “This threat materialised when the department unlawfully removed all its beneficiaries and suspended payment for all programmes,” said the organisation. According to A Re Ageng, matters escalated further against the directors of the NGO when R5m of the R10m was hacked from the Absa account belonging to the NGO. The dispute was heard in the high court, which dismissed the department’s case that A Re Ageng was responsible for the theft. Even though A Re Ageng was vindicated by the high court, the harassment against the NGO persisted. Kunene was summarily unlawfully arrested in a Brooklyn Shopping Mall in December 2017 in a supposed “crime intelligence” operation by a number of policemen in more than 10 cars. She was not charged for the theft of the R5m as had been alleged in the police media statement on December 9 last year. She was supposedly being held on an unrelated case unknown to her with a completely different case number, said the organisation. Kunene is currently out on bail relating to the new case. Her family is concerned about her safety and is appealing to the public for assistance. Anyone with information can call the police on  011 767 2300 or call Crime Stop confidentially on 08600 10 111 or sms Crime Line 32211.