A security guard believed to be employed by a company contracted by the provincial government to watch over “Ahmed Kathrada House” in Green Point, is alleged to be behind the killing of Zamuxolo Dolophini, known as Rasta. Rasta was one of about 100 people occupying the building for the past six months because, they say, they are desperate for housing and are tired of living in distant informal settlements and townships. Reclaim the City on Wednesday said Rasta was killed outside the Helen Bowden Nurses Home building in Green Point at the weekend. The organisation said over the last few months Dolophini and other leaders have become targets for intimidation by “opportunists, thugs and members of political parties with ulterior agendas”. Dolophini had tried to get to Somerset Hospital, but died on the street from his wounds. “That night, the Sea Point police arrested a security guard working for a private company contracted by the province to protect the House. It is believed this guard stabbed our comrade. “Everybody in our movement knew comrade Rasta. He came from Marikana in Philippi to support the occupation in the early days. Many of the occupiers are elderly people, women and children and he came when we were cleaning up the derelict rooms and making homes for members who were being evicted or could no longer pay the rent,” the organisation said. Police spokesperson Noloyiso Rwexana said the murder was being investigated. “According to information, police attended to the complaint at the address and on arrival they found a 50-year-old man with stab wounds to his body. A 41-year-old suspect was arrested and appeared in the Cape Town Magistrate’s court on March 19,” Rwexana said. Dolophini was engaged to marry Elizabeth Gqoboka, a leader in the organisation. Gqoboka on Wednesday said she was too distressed to speak about the incident. Dolophini is survived by two children, a sister and a brother. Siphesihle Dube, spokesperson for Transport and Public Works MEC Donald Grant, referred questions on the security guard allegation to the police. Reclaim the City said the Western Cape Government (WCG) last week had dropped off letters saying they were unlawful occupiers. Dube responded to questions thereon to a notice issued last week that the department had started a process of notifying each of the occupants of the Helen Bowden Nurses Home site that they wished to engage with them. “In our attempts to secure the site to date, the WCG has been forced to contract additional security for the site at a cost of close to R3 million a month. In this current financial year alone, the WCG has spent over R35m on securing this property against continued invasions, vandalism, and theft,” the statement read. House leader Bevil Lucas said Rasta would be buried next Saturday, and a memorial service would be held next Wednesday. “There is a sense of mourning in the house after this tragic event. "Things are tense at the moment,” he said.  francesca.villette@inl.co.za   raphael.wolf@inl.co.za 