David Warner became the fourth and final Australian embroiled in the ball-tampering scandal to make a tearful apology but refused to answer any meaningful questions about his leading role. Warner repeatedly said he would take responsibility for ‘his part’ in the scandal that has rocked world cricket but he refused to offer any detail about why he told Cameron Bancroft to tamper with the ball in the third Test against South Africa in Cape Town. The man who took the full brunt of the blame from Cricket Australia was expected to point the figure of blame at others for the scandal but instead kept his powder dry at the start of his 12 month ban. But he did concede that his international career is almost certainly over after receiving the bulk of the backlash for the nasty and aggressive culture that has poisoned Australian cricket. Warner, who received a hug from his wife Candice before he faced the music at the Sydney Cricket Ground, apologised to his, team, his family, every Australian and also to the South Africans in his pre-prepared statement.  But when he then took questions he kept on referring to the same words in the least convincing of the apologies delivered in the last tumultuous couple of days by the disgraced Steve Smith, Darren Lehmann, Bancroft and now Warner. ‘In striving to bring glory to our nation I have done the opposite,’ said Warner. ‘I am responsible for my actions and it is heartbreaking to know I will not be taking the field with my team-mates. In the back of my mind there is a tiny ray of hope that I may one day be given the privilege of playing for my country again but I am resigned to the fact this may not happen.’  Warner then said he would seek help to make ‘serious’ changes to a personality which has made him the most hated man in cricket and a figure who has received virtually no sympathy since this whole sorry saga began to unfold last Saturday. ‘I failed in my responsibilities as vice-captain of the Australia team,’ he continued. ‘It’s tough for me to talk about where my thoughts were that given the circumstances that happened in Durban (when he clashed angrily with South Africa’s Quinton de Kock) but I am here to take full responsibility and I really regret a decision that will stick with me for the rest of my life. ‘I am not surprised at the reaction at all. We let our country down because we made a bad decision. It will take a long time to earn the respect of the Australian public again. It’s hard seeing my friends play in a Test I wish I was part of.’ Warner would not comment on what he will do next with the strong suggestion he will appeal against the ban.  ‘I’ll continue to sit down with my family and weigh up all my considerations before I make my next decisions. It’s going to be really tough not to partake in the next 12 months not just with the rest of the team but with Steve and Cameron.’ But Warner would not say if he had tampered with a ball before and he would not say if anyone other than him Smith and Bancroft were the only people to know about the sandpaper plot. All in all a very poor display not helped by a once fine journalist in Malcolm Conn not allowing proper questions to be followed up in his role now as a New South Wales media officer. Daily Mail