Phakeng, currently UCT’s deputy vice-chancellor for research and internationalisation, was appointed by UCT’s council as the new vice-
chancellor with effect from July 1. Phakeng will take over from Dr Max Price, who has held the position since 2008. Phakeng is a highly regarded B2 NRF-rated scientist. She has won numerous awards for her research and community work, including the Order of the Baobab (Silver) conferred on her by the president in 2016. In August 2014, CEO magazine named her the most influential woman academic in Africa and in August 2016 she was awarded the prestigious Businesswoman of the Year Award in the education category. Phakeng was born in Eastwood, Pretoria. Her domestic worker mother went back to school to complete Grade 10 after giving birth to three children. Her father was one of the first black radio announcers at the SABC. “It’s a humbling experience. I didn’t apply for the job. I didn’t think I had a chance. I was nominated by people from different constituencies in the university, as the process allows. “I didn’t respond to the nominations at first. One of them was from a senior scholar who came to talk to me. We talked about why this is the time I should be doing this. “No doubt, one can have capabilities, experience, a good CV, but institutions need particular kinds of leadership at particular times,” she said. Leading up to the first democratic elections, others had died in efforts to reverse the narrative that black people cannot lead, Phakeng said. “It’s 2018 now... when I look back, I realise there were many more capable people... who looked like me, who would never have had the opportunity. I’m a beneficiary of that struggle. “The vision of the university is that we want to be inclusive, engaged and unapologetically African,” she added. UCT council chairperson Sipho Pityana said Phakeng had sound knowledge and an understanding of the key challenges and opportunities arising from the changing higher education environment in South Africa and globally. Price said the role of vice-chancellor is to unify the university community. “(Phakeng) brings a particular perspective which informs how she will lead, her views and how she relates to people.” Black Academic Caucus member Professor Adam Haupt said Phakeng was a dynamic leader and an excellent scholar.