The male chick hatched on the Day of Goodwill, in the chick rearing unit at the Southern African Foundation for the Conservation of Coastal Birds (Sanccob) after near full-term incubation at the aquarium by parent birds, Roxy and Grommet. Chippy has too older sisters - Miss Harold Custard and Clax. Northern rockhopper penguin chicks normally hatch after 33 or 34 days of incubation, but not little Chippy-Goodwill. Thirty-five days after being laid, on Christmas Day, Chippy made his move - beginning to break out of his shell. By the next day, Chippy finally “pipped”, the tip of his beak protruding through his shell. Tiny Chippy-Goodwill, weighed just 74 grams. Sanccob formulated the perfect diet for the penguin and Chippy thrived in their care, growing to 2.2kg in under three months. Aquarium curator Maryke Musson said the team was thrilled that Sanccob could step in and take on the role of penguin parents. “This resulted in the successful rearing of our beautiful little rockhopper chick. Sanccob not only does phenomenal sea-bird rehabilitation work, but also contributes to the conservation and husbandry research of many sea-bird species.” Sanccob chick rearing supervisor Romy Klusner described Chippy as a jealous little penguin, quick to notice when he is not the centre of attention. If you are ignoring him, you might be quickly reminded that he deserves a cuddle by a small nip on your leg, she said. Despite being a juvenile penguin, Chippy already has his “big boy” voice and has mastered the loud, adult rockhopper bray. Unlike African penguins, rockhopper penguins do not have spots but Chippy is quite special, he has a single black feather on his right leg that will allow him to be easily identified. His big sister Miss Harold Custard also has one of these unique spots, but hers is on the left leg. Chippy will join the rockhopper colony in the penguin exhibit at the aquarium. The rockhopper penguins in this exhibit were found stranded on southern Cape beaches, rescued and then rehabilitated by Sanccob before being donated to the aquarium.