Bukho Ngqiyi was declared dead on the scene despite his mother Lulama Ngqiyi’s efforts. She was joined by neighbours in an attempt to rescue the boy. The fire, according to the 41-year-old, broke out just before midnight while the boy was sleeping. On Sunday Ngqiyi burst into tears and said they tried everything in their power to save Bukho, but they were no match for the raging flames. “By the time we woke up the flames were high. I called on everyone not to try to save anything but rush to the door and get out. At that point plumes of smoke billowed into the air and we were all coughing.We managed to escape the towering flames unscathed. Bukho was behind and the fire trapped him inside he didn’t make it,” said the distraught Ngqiyi. The family suspect that something might have gone wrong when the power came back on in Strand and Somerset West following a blackout in the area. As the family grappled with the loss, some belongings, including clothes, lay scattered on the ground. Other residents had already rebuilt their homes while others sat inside their empty shacks. City Fire and Rescue Service spokesperson Theo Layne said two people, including Bukho, died and about 160 people were left homeless during separate fires in the city on Friday and Saturday. “About 60 shacks were destroyed in Pholile Park Strand where a fire broke out at 2am. About 100 people were displaced and a boy reported by a community leader died. “About 15 shacks were destroyed by a fire in Symphony Way Delft about half an hour later. Sixty people lost their homes but no injuries were reported. Later, a woman was killed in a house fire in Altena Road, Strand,” Layne said. The cause of the fires was unknown and police were investigating. MEC for Human Settlements Bonginkosi Madikizela visited the Ngqiyi family home on Sunday. “I am not proud to come here under these circumstances. The development for Pholile informal settlement should have been done long ago. We will do what we can to assist because I was told no one is employed. This is not my first time visiting this area because of devastating incidents. I can promise you that your cries have not fallen on deaf ears,” Madikizela said. He promised that the City would attend to the matter of electrifying Pholile and there were ongoing talks with landowners Sanral. According to community leader Zolisele Khundulu, about 10 people had died in shack fires which were related to illegal electricity connections last year. He said two children have already died as a result of such connections. “The people understand the dangers of illegal connections, but they have no choice; life is difficult without electricity. We have been waiting for the City to update us and they are quiet. How many people must die before the City does something?” he asked. He said electrification of the area had been supposed to start between December and January.