Harnessing water from the aquifer is one of the City’s major water augmentation projects. “In light of the debilitating drought, the City is now drilling into the Cape Flats Aquifer, and 22 000 private boreholes have been sunk in the suburbs in the last year. The risk this poses to the aquifer is tremendous. Without rain, and without any recharge, it is at risk of being destroyed. So too will the 130-year-old farmlands, its 6 000 workers, farmers’ livelihood and city’s food supply be lost,” PHA campaign spokesperson Nazeer Sonday said. Given the crucial role of the Cape Flats Aquifer in providing potable water to the city, Sonday appealed to Mayor Patricia de Lille to declare an environmental management overlay zone (EMO) over the entire PHA farmlands, the boundaries which would be according to the 1988 guideplan map. The campaign has appealed to the province to support the provincial MEC tribunal ruling of February last year which called for heritage protection status for the whole of the PHA, and gazette aquifer protection for the Cape Flats Aquifer recharge zone. They also called on national government to oversee the co-ordinated preservation of the aquifer. Mayco member for informal settlements, water and waste services, and energy, Xanthea Limberg said the City had consulted with geohydrology specialists who confirmed they were comfortable and confident with the City’s groundwater abstraction targets.   “These targets are supported by historic studies, updated modelling done as part of the current water programme, and preliminary results from recent geophysical surveys. Geophysical surveys allow the City and its partners in other spheres of government to build a detailed model of the aquifer that can be monitored as we abstract and store water,” Limberg said. “The water extraction and recharge process will be phased and the effects monitored. The recharging of the aquifers also forms part of the entire drilling project to ensure the source is sustained and protected, as has been the case for the aquifers in Atlantis which the City has been tapping into for the last 30 years,” Limberg added. Mayco member for transport and urban development Brett Herron said officials had been working on a new municipal spatial development framework (MSDF) to guide the development of the city going forward. “As a result of the importance of food production, aquifer recharge and development pressures that are present, the PHA is one of four special areas within the metro 
that has received specific dedicated focus in the proposed MSDF. “The proposal is to protect the Philippi Farming Area within the PHA from urban development,” Herron said. The revised MSDF is expected to be presented to council for approval in the next few months. The province referred queries to the national Department of Water and Sanitation, which did not respond to queries by deadline.  lisa.isaacs@inl.co.za 