State prosecutor Brynmor Benjamin submitted evidence on Monday, telling the court that, following the issuing of a certificate from the Director of Public Prosecutions, it would be determined whether Rob Packham would be charged with a schedule 5 or 6 offence. His wife, Gill, who worked as an administrator at private school Springfield Convent, did not arrive for work on Thursday last week. She was reported missing that afternoon, and her burning car was found at the Diep River train station later that night. Police discovered a burnt body in the boot of the car, and DNA tests have since confirmed that it was the body of the Constantia mother. Packham’s arrest came after a week of “tireless” work by a  team from the  Diep River police detective services,  said police spokesperson FC Van Wyk. Benjamin said that material evidence could be lost should the accused be released from custody. Packham, the general manager of Twizza, was arrested a few days after the body was found. “The police’s forensic unit found evidence in the driver’s side door of the accused's vehicle, and blood in the en-suite bathroom of their main bedroom. He also attempted to defeat the ends of justice, by calling a colleague and asking (him) to say he was at a meeting at 8.30 that morning,” said Benjamin. He said a person matching the accused’s description was seen driving a green BMW in the Diep River/Constantia area and his cellphone was picked up in the area. Benjamin said it was known that the couple had marital problems and alluded to Packham having an addiction (problem), before mentioning an SMS or text from the accused saying it was time to “call it a day” on their marriage. Packham was arrested on Thursday last week at his Constantia home. Both his daughters were present at court on Monday and supported by family during proceedings. Packham’s defence attorney, Ben Matthewson, argued that his client’s arrest was illegal as there was no arrest warrant. He could have left the court’s jurisdiction at any time but would now be unable to attend his wife’s funeral today and be unable to comfort their children. He requested his client be remanded at the Diep River police station until his next appearance. Bawa postponed the matter until Friday, but denied Packham’s request. He said once arrested or accused, the law dictates that an accused be remanded to a detainment facility and sent him to Pollsmoor Prison until his next appearance.  dominic.adriaanse@inl.co.za 