“What do we say to our innocent children about a police officer who molests children placed in his care, children who have entrusted justice and salvation to him after they were raped? What has gone wrong? Why have we become so numb to the tragedies that rob our children of their innocence? “On this day, as we remember Sharpeville, as we celebrate our human rights, we have many questions to answer in our quest for renewal and unity,” said Mabuza. “We must begin to do things differently. We must again become men and women of moral stamina, courage and conviction. "We must be like those who died in Sharpeville, for rights come with responsibilities. "We must all do our part with utmost regard for the life of others, especially those that are vulnerable and
marginalised. "It requires that we return to our values that embrace the sanctity of life.” He said returning to the founding ethos and a renewal of South Africa requires that those entrusted with power begin to diligently serve the communities and embrace the values of ethical leadership. “It requires that we conduct ourselves ethically. That we give the highest quality of service to our people, that we become public servants again. That we use our freedoms and democracy to serve our people selflessly at local, provincial, and national government,” said Mabuza. “Our real hope for the renewal, the regeneration of the soul of our nation, rests in our ability to fix our public service and improve the performance of our developmental state. "Our state must be led by men and women of high moral rectitude, and dedication - people who have made it their mission to selflessly serve and improve the lives of ordinary South Africans; people who have nothing else but the interest of our nation at heart.” Mabuza told the gathering that Human Rights Day reminded South Africans that irrespective of race, gender, status, or creed, they were all part of the human family. “It’s a day where we are reminded that our Bill of Rights is the bedrock of our democracy and freedom. It’s a day reminding us that South African workers have fought hard to resist inhumane working conditions, slave wages, and unfair labour practice. So today we must rededicate ourselves to the course of defending the rights of the most vulnerable among us,” he said. “But it is also a day that must remind us that freedom and democracy remain meaningless if the majority of South Africans remain trapped in poverty, without work, without bread, and without land.” Mabuza attributed South Africa’s “flourishing human rights ethos” to the country’s founding icons, particularly founding president Nelson Mandela and his generation.