“They are tough, and we are like them,” Lieutenant Payal Gupta said during an interaction with students and lecturers at UWC on Tuesday. Lieutenant-Commander Patarapalli Swathi said when they had stopped over in Australia, a mother had commented that she would never allow her daughter to have such an experience. “Six brave mothers from India gave us the thumbs-up. My dad said ‘you are sending your child to die’ and my mother said ‘close your eyes, pack up, you will be back home’,” Swathi said. Skipper Lieutenant-Commander Vartika Joshi said the journey has been one of personal discovery more than anything.   “If we are to make a difference in the world, each of us needs to know him or herself first. It's been a fantastic journey for us,” Joshi said. The crew are leaving Cape Town on Wednesday on board the 17m sailing vessel and are close to becoming India's first all-women crew to complete a historic circumnavigation of the globe. They left Goa, India, on September 10 last year and have already visited Australia, New Zealand and the Falklands. On Tuesday, the crew were hosted by the University of Western Cape management; the High Commissioner of India to South Africa, Ruchira Kamboj; the deputy director of Sport and Recreation, Sumayya Khan; and Health MEC Nomafrench Mbombo. Kamboj congratulated the women on breaking the notion that such an accomplishment only belongs to the few. “Societies will not be sustainable until women of all backgrounds are given equal rights. Until all ethnic and minority groups are liberated, and until we establish an equal base for everyone to rise. Now, more than ever, we are in need of action. In need of bold thinking and fresh ideas. And I see no better place for the conception of greatness than within a university,” she said. Khan delivered a speech on behalf of Sport and Recreation Minister Toko Xasa, and said the INSV Tarini crew have become symbols of hope and excellence. Their arrival in the Mother City also coincides closely with International Women’s Day, and their brave venture is testimony to the strength of women. “Women all over the world are entering this field and re-
imaging this institution. "The crew of the Tarini will go in the annals of naval history as among the trailblazers to circumnavigate the world in a sailing boat such as this one,” Khan said.  francesca.villette@inl.co.za 