Western Cape Finance MEC Ivan Meyer announced the allocation during the provincial budget speech, which he said was severely impacted by the drought and the recent 1 percentage point VAT increase. Meyer said though the current drought had impacted on the budget allocation, essential services such as healthcare, social services and education had been prioritised. “The drought is undeniably the major risk for the Western Cape and its people," said Meyer. "I am particularly happy that the national government has declared the drought as a national crisis, and for this reason, the Western Cape government has allocated R280m towards the drought, and we have set aside R1m to deal with the drought and put that in reserve,” added Meyer. The national government has set aside R6 billion in the 2018/19 financial year for drought relief. However, Western Cape Premier Helen Zille said during her recent State of the Province Address that the amount was not sufficient to tackle the drought. Meyer said they were awaiting instructions from the Treasury on how the R6bn will be distributed between the three drought-stricken provinces. Meyer said the biggest chunk of their budget went to the provincial department of health, which will receive R72.4bn. “The biggest slice of the budget goes to the department of health, who will receive over the next year R72.4bn to improve the health outcomes. The department of social development will receive a budget of R7.1bn,” said Meyer. The Western Cape Education Department will receive R69.8bn over the next three years. The ANC criticised the budget allocation for being focused too much on the agricultural sector instead of preserving the already scarce water resources. The opposition party in the Western Cape had slammed the budget, and accused the DA-led government of placing more emphasis on the impact of drought on agriculture. The ANC’s spokesperson on finance Carol Beerwinkel said: “Too much emphasis is placed on the impact of the drought on agriculture as it is having a dire direct bearing on human life. "Not enough is said on what the province will do to preserve, re-use, reduce water usage and retain stormwater that now runs into the sea.” She also called on the DA to focus on combating the “scourge of substance abuse".