Situated between the Langeberg and Outeniqua Mountains in the southern Karoo, Aquila Private Game Reserve has not been flagged as a water crisis zone, as per the Cape Town Metropole situation. “But being a Big 5 safari destination in Touws River we are true to the fact that we are a Karoo-based property and have, since inception, treated this precious commodity with respect and sustainability,” a press release read. Aquila is the
internationally-recognised Imvelo award winner for sustainable tourism measures implemented by a large tourism establishment and these measures include water and energy 
management. Water-saving measures that has been undertaken at the reserve include: * Clear messaging on all confirmed bookings prior to arrival to ensure guests use water sparingly during their Aquila visit. * Water crisis notifications have been posted to give guests tips to use less water during their stay. * Towels are only replaced at the request of the guest during an overnight stay. * The game reserve has removed bath plugs from rooms that have a bath and shower option with clear notices requesting use of a two-minute shower above that of a luxurious bath. * Communal areas make use of non-potable water (only when absolutely needed) and they have also installed key messaging at communal areas to make visitors aware of the water usage policies. * All communal gardens have been changed to remove any vegetation requiring excessive water and succulents, which occur naturally in the Karoo, have been used throughout the property. Further measures to reduce bulk water consumption
are currently being
investigated. The game reserve recently had to do mandatory repairs and maintenance to their swimming pool and made use of innovative water bladders at a major cost, to not waste a single drop of water. The 35m pool was emptied into large water bladders and, after repairs, was refilled with the same water. Aquila uses a mix of municipal supplied potable water, its own limited supply groundwater, rain water and non-potable water. African News Agency