Aglin Davis, 21, entered a plea and sentencing agreement and received 100 years and two life sentences after he was convicted on a string of charges including seven counts of rape, murder, attempted rape, two counts of robbery with aggravating circumstances, five counts of housebreaking, and assault. National Prosecuting Authority (NPA) spokesperson Eric Ntabazalila said Davis’s reign of terror had  started in 2013 when he targeted households headed by women. Wearing a balaclava, Davis would break into women’s homes at night and beat them up before raping them. He also attacked women while they were walking alone and would threaten to kill them before forcing himself on them. He had also blindfolded women with belts or torn T-shirts so they would not recognise him. “In one incident, he even invited a passer-by, who was cycling and saw him raping the victim, to come and rape the victim. "He raped another victim while she was lying next to her six-year-old daughter. He stole her flat screen TV after that. "He shoved a beanie into the mouth of the victim. The beanie cut airflow to her lungs and that led to her death. Police found her body the next morning. "In one incident, after being fought off by one of his victims, who woke up to find him inside the house, the accused had the audacity to come back to kick down her door. He then robbed her of her belongings." State prosecutor Maresa Engelbrecht said Davis’s crime spree had gone on for three years. “The victims were choked and threatened with a knife. Several victims, whose houses were broken into, were robbed and raped. "A life was lost and the deceased, who was married for 20 years, left behind four minor children,” Engelbrecht said. Ntabazalila said the NPA welcomed the sentence. “He violated their rights. Some were left with scars that may take years to heal, but we hope that they will find solace in knowing that Davis may never violate another woman again,” Ntabazalila said. Meanwhile, convicted child rapist Enoch Lefuthane appeared briefly in the Western Cape High Court yesterday morning to appeal against his sentence. Lefuthane was sentenced to serve 34 years in jail for raping three young boys during December 2014. In his swift court appearance before Judge Siraj Desai, he initially decided to represent himself at his appeal, but yesterday morning he told the court he wanted legal aid. Lefuthane will remain in custody at the Drakenstein Prison until his next court appearance, the date for which has yet to be decided. Ntabazalila said Lefuthane had been found guilty in September 2014 on seven counts: three of rape, three of abduction and one of kidnapping. He had been acquitted, however, on three counts of attempted murder. Cape Times