The area remained on lockdown following a foiled land invasion by thousands of land invaders, mostly backyarders. Calm has been restored following a meeting with community leaders and Human Settlements officials. Overberg police cluster commander Donovan Heilbron said: “Over the four days of unrest in the informal settlement, our officers arrested 81 people involved in the illegal protest. "They have been charged with public violence and will appear in the Hermanus Magistrate’s Court within the next week.” He said Hermanus police, along with public order police, remained in the area and would monitor the situation in case violence flares up again. Yesterday, Human Settlements Minister Nomaindia Mfeketo visited the area to address thousands of residents. She assured them that a committee was established to deal with the issues of land availability and the housing list. She urged them to allow the committee to do its work. “Some of the challenges will require engagement with other departments. Only the first part has been resolved, to instil calm, but now we need to fulfil our promises so the community does not lose hope and become frustrated again,” said Mfeketo. It was unacceptable that funds from the Human Settlements budget were being returned to the National Treasury when there was service delivery pressure on housing in the country, she said. “If relations between the three spheres of government were what they're supposed to be, ways could have been found to reallocate these funds to areas where they are needed most,” she said. She endorsed and supported the intervention of Western MEC for Human Settlements Bonginkosi Madikizela in Hermanus and her department would do everything possible to make sure the agreed plan of action between the province, Overstrand Municipality and the community was a success. “I am waiting for the revised business plans from the Western Cape Department of Human Settlements and the municipality that will prioritise spending in 
Overstrand. “In a few weeks, once that is received, we should be able to say in a concrete way how we are going to help,” said Mfeketo.