Smith was banned for one Test by the International Cricket Council, but the widespread anger in Australia has led to suggestions that the Aussie chiefs may hand out a much sterner punishment. A life ban from the game has even been suggested. The incident has been met with astonishment in Australia, with the protagonists - Smith, his vice-captain David Warner and opening batsman Cameron Bancroft - lambasted in the media under headlines almost universally trumpeting the word “Shame”. Cricket Australia (CA) chief executive James Sutherland arrives in South Africa today to join integrity chief Iain Roy, who is conducting the investigation. “We know Australians want answers and we will keep you updated on our findings and next steps, as a matter of urgency,”  Sutherland said. There is no hyperbole involved when Australians describe the cricket captaincy as the country’s second most important job behind that of prime minister; and the concept of playing “hard, but fair” has always been integral to the national identity. For Smith, therefore, to have deliberately conspired to cheat by getting a junior member of his team to tamper with the ball during the third Test against South Africa cuts to the very quick of the Australian psyche. “As this disreputable tour descended from the gutter into the sewer, the mythical line the Australians use as the yardstick for their behaviour has not only become blurred but disappeared altogether,” Andrew Wu wrote in the Sydney Morning Herald. “The disconnect from what Steve Smith’s men deem as acceptable behaviour, compared to the majority of the public back home, has become as wide as the Indian Ocean which separates them.” Yesterday, the Australian team players remained in their Cape Town hotel in preparation for the transfer to Johannesburg for Friday’s fourth and final Test; though, for many, their minds must surely be already on home. Indeed, joining the chorus of condemnation, Australian Sports Commission chairperson John Wylie said: “Frankly, we believe that Steve Smith and Cameron Bancroft should have been on the first plane home yesterday”. There were few smiles as they chatted quietly among themselves, some enjoying family time by the pool on what would have been the fifth day of the third Test had South Africa not ripped through their batting on Sunday to inflict a crushing 322-run defeat and take a 2-1 lead in the series. Smith, Warner and Bancroft were nowhere to be seen, though. In the space of two days, top batsman Smith has gone from Australia’s cricketing golden boy to national pariah. It has also cost him the captaincy of Indian Premier League side Rajasthan Royals, who announced on Monday that he had agreed to step aside, to be replaced by Ajinkya Rahane. Smith, widely accepted as the world’s best batsman of the current generation, has been reduced to a villain, with former Australian cricketers deeming his return to lead the team as untenable. “Steve Smith’s time as Australia’s captain is surely up,” former fast bowler Jason Gillespie wrote for Guardian Australia.