Cape Town -  A Lamborghini driver was arrested in the early hours of Monday morning after he was caught clocking 250km/h on the N1. 
The motorist was charged with reckless and negligent driving and was only one of several arrests made on the City’s roads over the weekend. Mayco member for Safety and Security and Social Services, JP Smith said the driver was arrested just after 1am when he was travelling between Sable Road and Plattekloof. “This incident is yet another example of the absolute disdain some road users have for the rule of law. I’m not sure how anyone thinks driving at such high speed on a public road is acceptable under any circumstances. We are usually flooded with complaints about the behaviour of public transport drivers, but the fact is that the behaviour of many categories of road users is nothing short of atrocious,” Smith said. An additional charge of defeating the ends of justice was added to the docket as the vehicle had no registration plates or other identifying marks. Elsewhere, Cape Town Traffic’s Traffic Services arrested 22 suspects at a number of roadblocks throughout the city - 19 for driving under the influence of alcohol and three for outstanding warrants. Officers also issued 774 fines for various other offences. In a street racing operation held in the Bellville South area, officers arrested six suspects for reckless and negligent driving. The Transport Enforcement Unit impounded 19 vehicles during an integrated operation in the Blackheath area and three more in Atlantis. In an enforcement operation in Table View, officers impounded five vehicles and charged eight taxi drivers for driving in the MyCiti bus lane. In Strandfontein, an officer attached to the Ghost Squad arrested a suspect for driving under the influence of alcohol just after 5am on Sunday morning. The Metro Police Department arrested 26 suspects for driving under the influence of alcohol, 11 for possession of drugs, four for possession of stolen property and one for intimidation and resisting arrest.