Provincial health department spokesperson Mark van der Heever, however, said that some of the patients that died had other complications, so the department was not sure how many deaths were attributable to listeria. As it stands, the Western Cape has 115 confirmed cases for last year and this year. Of these, 88 were from various areas within the Cape metro.   Van der Heever said the department would be removing affected items from menus within hospitals. This came as retailers countrywide were scrambling to remove ready-to-eat food products feared to be fertile carriers of the deadly listeria. Panic over the disease gripped the country following the revelation that the Enterprise Foods production facility in Polokwane, Limpopo, was the source of the listeriosis outbreak, which has resulted in 180 deaths. Health Minister Aaron Motsoaledi ordered a recall of processed meat manufactured by Enterprise and Rainbow. Consumers may return these products to most large retailers for a full refund. Mayco member for safety, security and social services, JP Smith, said the City’s environmental health practitioners would visit smaller outlets such as general dealers, house shops and spaza shops that were more difficult to reach to establish if they were aware of the recall and to record volumes of products being kept on site. People at high risk of developing severe disease include pregnant women and their unborn babies, the elderly, people with underlying conditions such as diabetes, cancer, chronic liver or kidney disease, and those with weakened immune systems due to HIV or chemotherapy. The City has appealed to the public to clean all fridges, machinery, cutlery and work surfaces such as cutting boards that may have been exposed to contaminated products. “A solution of one teaspoon unscented bleach to one litre of water can be used to disinfect the affected areas. Flood the surface with the bleach solution and leave to stand for 10 minutes,” Smith said. The Red Meat Producers Organisation (RPO) said they were satisfied that the red meat industry followed a responsible approach to the safety of red meat and red meat products. “The independent meat inspection services contribute considerably towards the prevention of diseases like listeria. Self-regulation is an important aspect of any agricultural commodity and the red meat industry is known for its good self-regulation practices and the fact that it does not only rely on government to render necessary services,” chairperson Koos van der Ryst said. The RPO recommended that consumers maintained a good relationship with their butcher and chatted to them about any concerns. Victims who could establish that they contracted listeriosis as a result of eating infected food may be able to recover damages either by virtue of the provisions of the Consumer Protection Act, or by way of a potential delictual claim as a result of negligence, according to Kirstie Haslam, a partner at DSC Attorneys. “The extent of the damages which can potentially be claimed includes treatment costs, lost income and general damages for pain and suffering and emotional trauma. “Should a breadwinner, who had a duty to support dependants and was in fact so supporting them, pass away as a result of contracting listeriosis, those dependants may have a claim for the lost financial support which they have suffered as a result,” she said.