Skipper Lieutenant-Commander Vartika Joshi and crew members Lieutenant-Commander Pratibha Jamwal, Lieutenant Aishwarya Boddapati, Lieutenant-Commander Patarapalli Swathi, Lieutenant Vijaya Devi and Lieutenant Payal Gupta yesterday steered out of the Royal Cape Yacht Club to make their way back to India. They are expected to arrive in Goa in 40 days' time, and will be the first Indian all-women crew of the Indian Navy to circumnavigate the globe. At the club yesterday, High Commissioner of India to South Africa and Lesotho Ruchira Kamboj and the Consul-General of India in Cape Town, Abhishek Shukla, were among those who wished them well. Captain Manjit Thomas, Indian defence adviser, said the last leg was the most crucial, and it would not necessarily be easy as there were cyclones forming off Madagascar. “It’s very important that they don’t lose focus. They have a rough few days ahead of them, but we are very confident that they can do it,” Thomas said. The crew were in high spirits all week, having visited the University of the Western Cape this week, and Joshi said the journey has been one of self-discovery mostly. They all expressed excitement at seeing their families again. Prayers for the crew were offered yesterday by Kirti Pandya and his wife Smruti, who wished them safe travels. Kamboj said the women were extremely motivated, and that would lead them to greatness. “They are sailing on the hopes and dreams of 1.3 billion Indians, and Indians can’t wait to have them back. They are real role models,” Kamboj said. The crew left India on September 10 and have touched Australia, New Zealand and South Africa. For a sailboat’s voyage to qualify for circumnavigation, the voyage has to start and finish at the same port, cover a distance of at least 21 600 nautical miles, keep south of the three great Capes of the southern hemisphere, cross all longitudes in the same direction, cross the equator twice, not use any canals and certainly not use the engine for propulsion. Their goal on the pioneering mission is to promote ocean sailing activities and to encourage women empowerment.