Schools can attend the show, to be held at the theatre from March 13 to 16, for free. The performances start at 10.30am. Free transport will be provided from a school to Artscape, and back again. Last year, the educational show embarked on a six-month tour, from June to December, during which it was performed at more than 60 venues, including school halls, community centres, theatres and outdoor locations. The venues were in Cape Town townships and suburbs, including Hout Bay,  Dunoon, Hanover Park and Rondebosch. More than  70 000  children and adults watched the spellbinding show. Regarding the shows at the Artscape, the theatre company said the only criteria for schools was that a maximum of 55 people, comprising pupils and teachers, can attend each performance. “Prior to our performances at Artscape we will complete our performances at Western Cape high schools... in the following places: Knysna, George, Bredasdorp, Worcester, Franschhoek, Paarl, Stellenbosch, Vredenburg, Malmesbury, Strand, Saldanha, Mossel Bay, Mitchells Plain, Khayelitsha, Wynberg, Langa, Belhar and Gugulethu,” said Bridgetown Theatre Company. Written and directed by Theo E Davids, TEACH ONE 2 TEACH ALL is an hour-long professional stage production that comprises three individual, interactive shows of 20 minutes each. Each of the shows  deals with a specific topic and theme relevant to youth and adults, and has a  contemporary narrative that they can identify with. The three shows are: High on life - a musical dance drama dealing with  youth at risk to gangsterism and drugs. Dialogue consisting of words currently in trend is  interwoven with high-concept dancing and acting; A mother’s love - a drama dealing with sexual abuse, suicide and racial and religious tolerance at schools, using modern technology; and U bully - a physical theatre drama dealing with bullying at schools. “During the interval of our above performances, we will also have a ‘We got talent’ show, where members of the audience will display their artistic talents in two-minute shows featuring dance, drama, and music - and can win a sponsored prize.”  For more information, call 082 536 3651 or log on to the Bridgetown Theatre Company Facebook page.  Cape Times  