This comes after the double murder-suicide by a Lentegeur police officer last Thursday. The officer reportedly used his service firearm after holding his girlfriend, aged 27, and her mother, 54, hostage in their Begonia home before turning the gun on himself. Independent Investigative Directorate (Ipid) spokesperson Moses Dlamini said the police were investigating which gun was used during the murders. The night before the incident, a gun was confiscated from the officer after a domestic violence incident at the house. Sapu general secretary Oscar Skommere said the high rate of police suicides were shocking and an investigation was needed to see what can be improved or changed to reduce and solve the problem. In February, it was also reported that an off-duty police officer at Kensington police station also shot himself. Last year in November, another off-duty police officer, stationed at Cape Town Central police station, shot himself in the head in the toilet at work. Gun Free SA's Adèle Kirsten said there were challenges with current gun laws. “We want to set the bar high; there must be strict provision of guns.The government must improve law enforcement and policy around police officers taking their service weapons home. We understand the job police do hence we are calling for additional psychological support,” said Kirsten. He called on the government to strengthen the country's Firearms Control Act to protect women against gun violence at their homes. “While women are less likely to be victims of gun violence, firearms still play a significant role in violence against women. Women are particularly at risk of being shot by someone they know. There are many questions regarding the Mitchells Plain incident and one of them is how and when did the officer get a gun, as it was taken the day before. Drastic action, such as when a police officer has a protection order against him, the gun must be taken away,” said Kirsten. Opposing the call, Police and Prisons Civil Rights Union (Popcru) spokesperson Richard Mamabolo said: “We have raised concerns about the Employee Assistance Programmes by the SAPS. They have been shown to be unreliable, inconsistent and a majority of officers do not utilise them on the basis that they are seen to compromise their confidentiality. Many of our officers do have problems of post-traumatic stress disorder due to the nature of their work and not much has gone into ensuring they are psychologically assisted.” Cape Times