Dressed in their blue tutus, thigh-high stockings and ballet shoes, the girls made their entry into the exam room with smiles and upright postures. The exam was held at the Russian Ballet Academy of South Africa at Doringkloof Mall, where the girls from disadvantaged backgrounds rendered three performances for judges, artistic director and choreographer of the Royal Moscow Ballet Theatre Anatoly Emelianov, and Natalia Odinokova, ballerina and ballet examiner. Performances included ballet basics, where they showed off their stretching skills, pata-pata dance with a fusion of ballet, and a Russian ballet accompanied to a Russian song, Mama. After the exam, the girls received certificates for taking part, and participant Vuyelwa Thakane could not contain her excitement. “Dancing makes me happy, and receiving the certificate is just out of this world,” the 11-year-old from Pinedene said. She said when she walked out to dance with her counterparts in front of the judges, she was nervous, but as they danced she began to relax. Asked what her favourite performance was, Vuyelwa said: “I love and enjoy pata-pata. I love ballet and would love to travel overseas to dance just like our dance master Madame Slou.” During the performances, the girls were led by ballet master Akimguereeva Slou. Speaking to the Cape Times’ sister publication, the Pretoria News, Emelianov said it was good to see children interested in Russian culture and ballet. “It was interesting to watch and the performance, where children performed and sang a Russian song titled Mama. It was amazing.” Emelianov said the country definitely had talent, but there was a need to put more work into the dancing. Learn to Fly founder Claire Gardiner said the initiative was aimed at taking disadvantaged girls off the streets and avoid life’s hardships. “South Africa is mainly focused on sports activities for boys but nothing for girls, so they are left out in the streets dong nothing, especially after school. "With this programme I want to show girls that not only can you achieve through academics, but also through arts and culture,” she said. All the girls in the programme attend Irene Middle School. On Tuesday, Emelianov was expected to perform during the Royal Moscow Ballet at the South African State Theatre. The event is a tribute to the Russian composer Pyotr Ilyich Tchaikovsky.