The University of Cape Town (UCT) has maintained its top position in Africa – just outside of the top 100 in the world – in the 2019 Quacquarelli-Symonds (QS) Graduate Employability Rankings. Commenting on UCT being ranked in the 101-150 band for the second consecutive year, UCT acting deputy vice-chancellor for research and internationalisation, Professor Michael Kyobe said: “The methodology of the QS survey relies heavily on a global survey of what academics and employers think of a particular university. "QS Surveys also look at citations per faculty, staff-student ratio and the degree of internationalisation by the proportion of international students and faculty. "Since UCT’s research impact is above the world average in many areas and because we have a very good proportion of international students, these indicators would tend to boost our scores.” The QS Rankings provide a unique insight into an institution’s employability performance. Five indicators are used to measure performance with various weightings: – Employer reputation (based on over 40 000 responses to the QS Employer Survey, which asks employers to identify the most competent and innovative graduates –  30% – Aumni outcomes (based on successful alumni on over 150 high-achiever lists measuring desirable outcomes in a particular walk of life –  25% – Employer–student connections (distinct companies that have been present at events on campus or have promoted themselves on university-related websites – 10% – Partnerships with employers (collaborative publications with global companies and work-placement related partnerships –  25% – Graduate employment rate (the proportion of graduates in employment within one year of graduation, excluding those opting to pursue further study –  10%. UCT achieved its best score of 97.2 out of the possible total of 100 for the “graduate employment rate” indicator and ranks 18th in the world. The next best score of 89.7 is achieved for “Alumni Outcomes” and ranks 36th in the world. "It is important to note that while UCT continues to perform well in international rankings, it is vital to look at our context. None of the rankings gives a perfect view of a university. In particular, they do not take into account some of the crucial roles universities play in developing countries. "They do not, for instance, measure the extent of a university’s social engagement – its responsiveness to the communities around us and in the rest of southern Africa – or the degree to which a university develops capacity in Africa, growing the next generation of researchers. Both of these are crucial to UCT’s mission."