After Plattekloof businessman Liyaqat Parker had been safely reunited with his family thanks to private investigators, questions have been raised about the police's ability to prevent the kidnapping of prominent business people. TimesLive reported that Cape Town's mayor-to-be, Community Safety MEC Dan Plato, said: "This raises serious questions on SAPS’s role in the combating and prevention of kidnappings in the province involving prominent business people." Plato said he would ask provincial police managers for an update on the investigation when they attended a provincial cabinet meeting on Wednesday. “Police has thus far remained tight-lipped about the investigation‚ leaving speculation to continue as to their involvement to return Mr Parker or capabilities to arrest those responsible‚” he said. “Despite the safe return of Mr Parker‚ we need to unmask those responsible and ensure they receive their day in court to face the full might of the law.” Plato added that the 65-year-old’s release was the result of “large sums of extortion money” being paid by the family – there have been reports that it amounted to R4.8 million. However, the public relations consultant hired by the Parker family‚ Kaz Henderson‚ denied that a ransom was paid and said claims Modack was involved in Parker's release were “simply not true”. Parker’s family confirmed that he was safely reunited with them on Monday after being held in captivity for over two months. The family said in a statement they were relieved to have him back and requested that the media and public respect their privacy during this difficult time. "The Parker family wishes to express their sincere gratitude to everyone who has walked this journey with them and provided physical‚ emotional and spiritual support. It is truly appreciated‚" the statement read. TimesLive reported that alleged extortionist Nafiz Modack was believed to have been involved in securing the release of Parker in Kuils River late on Monday. Modack refused to comment on his involvement‚ saying only that he was “glad (Parker) was okay and safe with his family”. Parker initially went missing in July, when he was accosted as he was driving into the basement parking of his business premises in Stairway Close, De Greens, Parow. According to police, an unknown double-cab LDV followed him and suspects forced the security guard at gunpoint at the gate into the toilet, where they took his cellphone and locked him up. Parker is the founder member of the Foodprop Group, which owns the Foodworld chain of supermarkets. He is also a board member of the Brimstone investment group. Parker’s kidnapping took place nearly a year after that of Zhauns Business Opportunity Machines owner, Sadeck Zhaun Ahmed, 71, who was kidnapped outside his business in Woodstock. Ahmed was bundled into a car by three men with a firearm, who drove away with him, before releasing him more than a month later. He was returned home after two months. There were reports that a ransom of R20 million was paid for his release, but his family denied it. In August last year, 76-year-old Omar Carrim was taken by a group of unknown men after leaving his business, Home Hyper City, in Pretoria. Police later found his burnt-out Mercedes-Benz and Carrim was released by his captors in December. Sources close to the Cape Times said in July Mozambican national Momade Assife Abdul Satar, who goes by the name of “Nini, had been arrested in Thailand and was suspected to be at the centre of an international crime syndicate behind the kidnapping of prominent Cape Town businessmen. The police sources said Nini was alleged to have recruits in Cape Town who carry out kidnappings.