This is in preparation for what is predicted to be a difficult summer fire season ahead. Working On Fire (WOF) says the firefighters have been deployed across the province to reduce the personal and economic harm caused by unwanted veld and forest fires. The Yellow Card Training Camp officially launches today and will continue until October 6. “As we head into what is predicted to be a difficult veld fire season, the Yellow Card Training is a good opportunity for our firefighters to be refreshed in their physical and mental abilities to tackle this year’s fire season. “We are expecting an excellent pass rate from both the South and West sectors. “Together with our various stakeholders and partners, we aim to tremendously reduce the risk of fires throughout the province, and ensure that our communities remain safe from unwanted fires,” said WOF acting general manager Rayaan Majiet. The training includes physical activities such as a 2.4km run in under 12 minutes for men and 14 minutes for women, 40 push-ups and sit-ups in one minute, seven pull-ups, and as a team building exercise, they will complete a 10km route march. The firefighters are also assessed on their knowledge of fire behaviour, fire watchouts, fire line safety principals, as well as fire line equipment and its use. The organisation said more than a thousand from Working on Fire assisted partners such as CapeNature, the Southern Cape FPA, South African National Parks, the Cape Peninsula FPA and local fire authorities in suppressing 235 veld and forest fires, limiting the areas burnt to 186 600 hectares during the 2017/18 Summer Fire Season. Aerial support flew just over 1 300 flying hours, resulting in an 85% success rate in containing fires in the first hour, according to WOF. The Working on Fire programme has over its15-year existence earned several awards, excelling in reaching its published goals and transforming the lives of its beneficiaries and their families beyond expectations. It has grown from its humble origins involving 25 teams (850 beneficiaries) in September 2003 to its current force of more than 5 000 personnel spread across 200 bases in all the provinces of South Africa.