Alleged wife killer Rob Packham will have to pay an additional R25 000 bail on top of the R50 000 he has already forked out. The Constantia businessman also has to hand over all his electronic devices and abide by other conditions, the Western Cape High Court ruled on Friday. The State wanted Judge Nathan Erasmus to revoke his bail after he had contacted State witnesses, including a woman with whom he had an extramarital affair, who was not identified. Judge Erasmus imposed stringent conditions which involve Packham handing over all his communication devices. Packham is allowed to go shopping for three hours once a week‚ attend church once each Sunday and visit his lawyer’s office, TimesLive reported. He was ordered to phone the investigating officer every time he leaves home and on his return‚ and has to report to the police daily between 8am and 9am. Packham, who used to work for Twizza, was charged with the murder of his wife, schoolteacher Gill Packham, earlier this year. He was out on bail and was under house arrest. His wife disappeared on February 22 and her body was found in the boot of a burnt-out BMW near Diep River train station. According to the indictment, he allegedly used a blunt object to hit Gill on the head and, with the alleged intent to obstruct the course of justice, set alight a BMW while her body was inside the vehicle. He allegedly also gave the police false information. "It is common cause that you have breached bail conditions. There is an absolute bar on communication, direct or indirect, with certain witnesses who are listed," the judge said while delivering his verdict, News24 reported. In considering what to do with the 57-year-old, Erasmus said: "I have no sympathy for you. "If you do anything and I caution you, you will lose your bail money and you will be kept in custody until the end of your trial." Earlier on Friday, it emerged that Packham had made contact with his former mistress and several colleagues at his former workplace Twizza. The court heard he was caught on video handing over flowers and a card to a doorman at his mistress's workplace on September 3. The card contained a French quote which translated to "Love makes all things beautiful". The investigating officer, Detective Sergeant Ivan Sonnenberg, also revealed that the mistress had received an email and cellphone message from someone who had a different name, whom she believed might be Packham. Sonnenberg said the mistress's attorney contacted him to inform him that she was being harassed at work and being contacted on her cellphone. She apparently also made a statement in which she said his contact was not desired and she felt "harassed and intimidated by him". Prosecutor Susan Galloway had argued that Packham should be kept in custody as it would be easier to monitor his communication. Packham was seen laughing at this comment. Judge Erasmus said the accused could do exactly the same actions in prison except for delivering flowers in person. The case was postponed to October 26 for his pre-trial conference in the high court.