The Road Accident Fund has started a campaign, called "Keep It Simple", to encourage people to claim directly and cut out personal injury lawyers, who they say are profiting heavily from claims. The RAF said many myths plagued the option of claiming directly with them, to the extent that many car crash victims would rather employ a third party. RAF senior media manager Linda Rulashe said: “In truth, claiming directly is much simpler than many of us have been led to believe – three simple steps: Gather the required documents; complete the submission form; and submit the form and documents at your nearest RAF office. “The myth that the administrative claims process is a drawn-out affair is untrue. Direct claims tend to be processed more promptly because the process does not involve lengthy litigation and the concomitant period of time required to proceed to trial, which is prevalent in relation to represented claims." They emphasised they had a direct claim management policy in place, should a dispute arise, for the management of disputes by direct claimants. Since the RAF’s introduction of direct claims less than a decade ago, direct claims grew from 15% of new claims in 2011/12 to 37% in 2017/18. Following the financial crash of the RAF, the Road Accident Benefit Schemes Bill is being finalised to replace it. However, the bill has been met with much criticism as it would work on a “no fault” system, only paying out pre-defined and limited benefits, which do not take a person’s individual circumstances into account. The portfolio committee on transport last month concluded public hearings on the bill in all nine provinces. Issues that came to the fore during the public hearings on the bill included scrupulous lawyers; challenges with the introduction of a no-fault system; and income generation potential for those victims whose income generation is cut short while still at university. In 2016, the Road Accident Fund announced they were technically insolvent and had accumulated “unfunded” liabilities of R145 billion. The chairperson of the committee, Dikeledi Magadzi, said: “All the inputs will make the committee wiser and the different views expressed will find expression in the bill.” Any queries or clarification around claims can be directed to the RAF Call Centre on 0860 23 55 23, Monday to Friday, between 7.45am to 4pm. Assistance is available in any of the 11 official South African languages.  nicola.daniels@inl.co.za  