A Bonteheuwel church has taken on a mission to make a difference in the lives of 300 children who “only know violence and poverty”. The spokesperson for the Pentecostal Revelation Church of God in Kreefgat, Nicolene Brevis, said the idea was envisioned last year to help children from three informal settlements. “We really would like to make a difference in the lives of these children who are subjected to violence and poverty every day. They do not know what it is to have fun, because we see them roaming the streets daily. “And this is why we want to host a morning of treating them to a hearty breakfast followed by a fun day for all from the community on the day,” Brevis said. She said the 300 children from three informal settlements would come from Kreefgat, Strandfontein and Kalksteenfontein, where breakfast would take place on a field next to Klipfontein Primary School in Bonteheuwel. “We sat back and thought of how we could reach out to our community, and we realised that our children need us. We needed to make a difference in the lives of others, and if we are equipped to do so, then we should reach out and make that happen.” Brevis said church members had been visiting with the identified communities weekly and monthly. “We spend most of our free time with these children. "We gather weekly and monthly with them, and try to complement different projects with them. We believe we can make a difference in these children's lives,” she said. Brevis said this would be the first time such an event would be held for the children and community. “Two years ago, we only hosted a breakfast for the children, but this year we would like the community to also enjoy a fun day after the children and their hearty breakfasts. “We really need people and businesses to open their hearts to this cause and to help with any donations towards this event,” Brevis said. She said various government departments had been invited to the event, which will centre around awareness. To donate, contact Nicolene Brevis on 081 865 6276.