A goat with a knife firmly implanted in its back was discovered on Camps Bay beach on Sunday by Law Enforcement officers. It is suspected that it had been involved in some type of ritual that occurred during the night on the beach but managed to evade its captors, the City of Cape Town said in a statement. "The officers immediately called the SPCA, who came out and rescued the animal, who had lost a lot of blood. The handle of the knife was wrapped in red cloth material. Every effort will be made by the SPCA to save the animal," the City said. On Saturday, the City's Neighbourhood Safety Team Law Enforcement Officers were on patrol in Delft South when they received information of the burning of suspected stolen copper wire at an address in  Bizet Street. On arrival at the property, the smell of burnt plastic in the air confirmed the tip-off was positive. As they approached the property, two male suspects fled, but the officers were able to prevent one from escaping. A 25-year-old male suspect was arrested and charged under the Criminal Matters Amendment Act. A total of 17m of cable was recovered. "The Criminal Matters Amendment Act regulates bail in respect of essential infrastructure related offences and the imposition of discretionary minimum sentences for these types of offences. The act ensures stricter conditions for the granting of bail and the imposition of harsher sentences for perpetrators found guilty," the City said. "The officers then went in search of the cable casings and spotted two males digging trenches on Symphony Way in Delft. The officers quickly pounced on the suspects and arrested a 30-year-old male and his 31-year-old accomplice. Both suspects reside in Delft. The officers returned to Bizet Street and recovered a further 13m of stolen cable." On Sunday, the officers returned to the Bizet Street property and found one of the two suspects who had managed to flee the day before and arrested him as well. They also went back to the property of the two suspects arrested in Symphony Way and found more of the stolen cable in a shack on their property. Eskom employees identified all the cable as their property.