Of these, 53% of the victims were adult males and 46% of the deaths happened during weekends. Most deaths (58%) happened between midnight and 6am. The release of these statistics came as a Hout Bay resident was killed in a shack fire that broke out in Mandela informal settlement yesterday. The city’s Fire and Rescue Services spokesperson, Theo Layne, said the blaze broke out in the area shortly after midnight. “The City’s Fire and Rescue responded to Pixley Seme Street in Mandela Park around 1am, where we had one adult female who sustained fatal burns. No other injuries were reported and the cause of the fire is undetermined at this time,” Layne said. The report showed a spike in fires in residential areas, buildings and transport, while vegetation fires decreased. Mayco member for Safety and Security, and Social Services, JP Smith, said: “The City of Cape Town’s Fire and Rescue Service is gravely concerned by the trends emerging from fire fatality statistics gathered over the last few years. “We’ve indicated time and again that negligence and substance abuse play a role in a number of fires that our staff respond to. “This statistical analysis supports this assertion, which means that we will have to further increase our public education and awareness drives. However, we also appeal to the public to assist us by being more vigilant around flammable materials at all times.” Smith said building and transport fires were directly linked to the increase in protest action over the past year and include the apparent arson attacks targeting Metrorail. Khayelitsha Development Forum chairperson Ndithini Tyhido said: “We don’t believe these stats are accurate. This is just a political excuse to remove people from their homes. We are disappointed that, instead of giving solutions, they are opting for stats that will not help people. “Look at the deplorable living conditions of Taiwan informal settlement residents. After the death of eight people, the City made promises and, to date, has not delivered. “The City first needs to address and reverse the apartheid spatial planning, where people were placed in sandy areas and shacks on wetland. Informal settlements need to be upgraded and redesigned.”