More than 60 percent of motorists arrested at roadblocks at the weekend were drunk drivers, the City said. There were 144 arrests during the Drunk Driving Awareness Unit, of which 92 were for driving while under the influence of alcohol. The arrests were made in Strand, Bellville South, Fish Hoek, Diep River, Wynberg, Rondebosch, Claremont and Mitchells Plain. Mayco member of safety and security JP Smith said a number of drugs had also been confiscated, including 33 bankies of dagga, one packet of tik and eight mandrax tablets. At a roadblock in Rondebosch on Saturday, an inspector was knocked down in a hit-and-run. The driver raced through the roadblock, colliding with the inspector, who had to be taken to hospital. "Driving under the influence of alcohol continues to be a severe social problem that occurs in our city. With various safe commuting options available to motorists, it is hard to comprehend how motorists continue to place their lives and those of others at risk. "The City of Cape Town’s Safety and Security Directorate will continue to clamp down on those offenders who continue to undermine the law and keep this city safe for everyone to enjoy," Smith said. On Sunday, during a drag racing operation in Mitchells Plain, traffic officers arrested 15 suspects, 13 for driving under the influence of alcohol, one for reckless and negligent driving, and one for being in possession of narcotics. A total of 73 packets of tik and dagga were confiscated, Smith said. "The Metro Police Department had their hands full at the Kaizer Chiefs versus Cape Town City soccer game at the Cape Town Stadium. The kick-off was at 15:00 and spectators started jumping over the turnstiles to gain entry. "At 15:30, the ticket scanners stopped working, which led to spectators continuing to jump over turnstiles situated at different entry gates. At 16:15, security reported that the spectators breached the mag-and-bag area, which resulted in security dropping the shutters to prevent further breaching. "The situation escalated and resulted in spectators fighting with officers. One spectator was arrested on charges of crimen injuria as well as for assault on a police officer,"  Smith said.