World Suicide Prevention Day, commemorated today, aims to promote worldwide commitment and action to prevent suicides. The recent suicides of beloved figures, including renowned cardiologist Professor Bongani Mayosi, have shone a spotlight on the effects of suicide and depression. The SA Depression and Anxiety Group (Sadag) said it received 600calls every day from people who felt sad, depressed or who had been raped or bullied. “Although suicide is a serious public health problem, very few low- and middle-income countries have national suicide prevention strategies, even though 80% of suicides occur in these settings. "South Africa, like most countries in Africa, does not have an explicit and comprehensive strategy to prevent suicides,” Bantjes said. The senior lecturer does research on the prevalence and prevention of suicidal behaviour. His work is supported by a grant from the SA Medical Research Council. Bantjes said suicide was the second leading cause of death among 15- to 29-year-olds. But while the state has developed policies such as the National Mental Health Policy Framework and Strategic Plan, and other strategy documents on violence and injury prevention, which partly address suicide, these frameworks “lack sufficient detail on suicide prevention to be effective substitutes for a dedicated comprehensive evidence-based national suicide prevention strategy”, Bantjes said. South Africa needs a strategy to set suicide prevention targets and provide a framework for organisations to work together. “Because suicide prevention is complicated and so many factors contribute to it, we need a more co-ordinated research network to strengthen capacity and advance suicide prevention practices in South Africa,” Bantjes said. For every suicide death, there are estimated to be at least 20suicide attempts. For free counselling, call Sadag at 0800 567 567 or visit www.sadag.org for more information, self-help tips, online videos, and local and international articles on various mental health issues.