CAPE TOWN – President Cyril Ramaphosa has appointed an advisory panel on land reform that will support the Inter-Ministerial Committee (IMC) on Land Reform, which is chaired by Deputy President David Mabuza. Announcing the appointment on Friday, the Presidency said the panel will advise the IMC on a broad range of policy matters associated with land reform, including restitution, redistribution, tenure security and agricultural support.   “The panel comprises 10 members who are eminently qualified by virtue of academic background, professional experience, social entrepreneurship or activism related to the agricultural economy and land policy.   “The panel embodies a diversity of experience and perspectives that will enrich the IMC’s deliberations on land reform as an enabler for a united, cohesive society and an inclusive, efficient and globally competitive economy,” said the Presidency. The panel is chaired by social entrepreneur and public policy and development planning specialist, Dr Vuyokazi Mahlati, who is serving her second term as a member of the National Planning Commission. Dr Mahlati, who serves in various public capacities, is President of the African Farmers Association of South Africa. Perspectives on land policy The Presidency said the panel was expected to provide perspectives on land policy in the context of persisting land inequality, unsatisfactory land and agrarian reform and uneven urban land development.   “The panel is mandated to review, research and suggest models for government to implement a fair and equitable land reform process that redresses the injustices of the past, increases agricultural output, promotes economic growth and protects food security,” it said. President Ramaphosa and Deputy President Mabuza met with the panel in Pretoria on Tuesday. They invited the panel to provide the IMC with critical and independent inputs that will facilitate sound policy making and effective implementation. President Ramaphosa, on Tuesday, thanked all the members of the panel for agreeing to serve on the panel. “Although the members of the panel are drawn from very different backgrounds, with different areas of expertise and perspectives, they are united by a shared vision of a just and equitable future for all South Africans,” he said. Dr Mahlati will convene the following panellists:   – BUSINESS REPORT