The R2.9 million grant that Stellenbosch University (SU)’s Fire Engineering Research Unit (FireSUN) has received from the Lloyd’s Register Foundation represents an exciting development for fire safety engineering in South Africa and Africa. This was stated by FireSUN’s head, Dr Richard Walls, in explaining that the grant would be used to develop Africa’s first postgraduate programme in fire engineering and ultimately provide expertise to keep the African continent safe from uncontrolled fires. It meant the FireSUN team could now expand their work by offering postgraduate degrees (MEng and PhD) in fire safety engineering (FSE) next year, said Walls. "This represents an exciting development for fire safety engineering in South Africa and Africa as a whole. Research shows that South Africa has one of the highest fire-related death rates per capita worldwide, many of which occur in informal settlements. "With the growth of the African population and the local mining, manufacturing and resource processing industries, the associated fire risks of the continent are rapidly increasing, along with the need for fire engineering professionals. “To this end a Master's in engineering (MEng) and PhD degrees in fire engineering will develop the engineering capacity the continent needs." The formal fire engineering programmes would have a significant impact on providing the expertise needed to keep the African continent safe in the case of fire, be it for the residential, mining, industrial or transport sectors, Walls said. With South Africa having one of the highest fire-related death rates per capita worldwide, the risk of deadly fires, especially in informal settlements, remained constant in the country, due to the close proximity of shack structures, open fires and paraffin use for cooking and warmth in winter. “To improve the safety of those living in informal settlements, there is a desperate need to develop a thorough understanding of how fires behave in those environments, and what products will (or won’t) be suitable. "As our populations rapidly expands and the number of people living in informal settlements doubles in the coming decades, it is inevitable that better fire safety solutions will help save lives." Lloyd’s Register Foundation director of skills and education Dr Tim Slingsby said: “We look forward to seeing the outcomes and impact of this work spread to other institutions and to workforces, providing the continent with a much needed, highly technical capability and capacity to improve safety."