The girls, who called themselves Rock Girls, installed a Safe Space bench at their school in Manenberg. This simple bench launched BRAVE, an NGO that has now inspired and empowered over 750 girls through its after-school workshops, holiday camps and road trips, and that is supporting thousands more through girl-led initiatives and networks for girls and women. On September 15, BRAVE installed its 60th Safe Space bench in Muizenberg, continuing its city-wide campaign to raise awareness about the need for more resources, opportunities and, most importantly, safe spaces for girls and women. The benches were donated by BRAVE award-winner and internationally recognised artist Laurie van Heerden and his team from Wiid Design, who since 2011 have championed the work of these young women and created benches that are now dotted around the city. “It is my honour to support girls who have dedicated their lives to making their communities and our city safer. As an artist, I am proud to be part of the BRAVE community,” Van Heerden said at the unveiling. Safe Space benches are found at the Cape Town train station, on Saint Georges Mall and in St Andrews Square. The benches in Muizenberg were unveiled with the help of girls from Masiphumelele and Waves for Change, an NGO that is also committed to providing safe spaces for young people. BRAVE has been collaborating with Waves for Change for the last few months, and in October will begin regular Saturday BRAVE workshops for girls from Masiphumelele after their surf therapy with Waves for Change. BRAVE believes that girls need these kinds of opportunities to encourage them to remain in school and stay safe and thrive. On Saturday, several of the BRAVE girls spoke with the girls from Masiphumelele to find out about some of the challenges they face in their community. Sadly, while the Safe Space campaign has successfully installed many benches around Cape Town and has engaged scores of artists, designers and raised awareness, the need for these benches, and for more safe spaces generally, is even greater today than in 2010. The girls from Masiphumelele, aged 12 to 16, told BRAVE that they felt anxious walking to school or to a meeting, and felt scared about being raped or abducted. The girls also reported that they had seen dead bodies on the way to school and that “security is nowhere to be seen innocent lives are being taken by gang violence”. One girl, aged 14, told BRAVE: “Young girls are highly traumatised but they slowly adapt to this toxic atmosphere they have to grow up in. Even at school we don’t feel safe.”