A total of 48 suspects have been arrested for driving under the influence and two for reckless and negligent driving in Mitchells Plain, Durbanville, Eerste River, Maitland and Khayelitsha by the City’s Traffic Services. The Traffic Services said in a statement on Monday its officers impounded 50 vehicles and issued 2 230 fines for various other offences at the weekend and during the past week. The City’s Metro Police Department said it arrested 15 motorists for drunk driving and nine suspects for various crimes at the weekend. The crimes included defeating the ends of justice, resisting arrest, domestic violence, reckless and negligent driving, the City said. "On Sunday, officers arrested 10 motorists aged between 25 and 57 years for drunk driving in the Kraaifontein and Delft areas at random breath testing sites and various vehicle checkpoints. "Officers took a zero tolerance approach to all traffic-related offences and were especially firm with motorists who exceeded the legal limit. "On Saturday, officers arrested a 31-year-old motorist on the R300 between Hindle Road and N2 for drunk driving. The officers attended to an accident when they discovered the motorist was strongly under the influence," the City said. "He was arrested for drunk driving when he blew 0.72 mg/l during a sobriety test. An additional charge of reckless and negligent driving was added. "Later officers came across three more motorists – aged 20, 36 and 43 – driving drunk at a vehicle control point in the Cape Town CBD and Khayelitsha. A 21-year-old suspect was arrested under the Domestic Violence Act in Khayelitsha. "Further high-visibility patrols in Kleinvlei led to the arrest of two men, aged 32 and 38, for drug-related offences. Officers confiscated three sachets of tik. "On Thursday, officers on patrol in Lentegeur arrested a 29-year-old suspect for the possession of heroin. On the same day, officers in Bellville, Parow and Goodwood collaborated with Law Enforcement, Home Affairs, the Voortrekker Road CID, South African Police Service and officials from solid waste and informal trading, holding roadblocks and operations in various areas. "During the roadblocks officers issued 179 traffic fines for various offences and impounded four minibus taxis. In addition, officers issued a number of fines during the past week for traffic and bylaw violations in various areas across the Metro. "The fines included 548 for traffic violations and 117 for bylaw offences. Officers patrolled the R300 and N2 freeways on a daily basis for the safety of motorists with broken-down vehicles and assisted a number of drivers."