Having proved himself as the country’s best and most creative car window tinter by winning the inaugural Llumar SA Window Film Tint Off competition at the weekend, Atlantis resident John-Ross Arendse will now travel to the US to compete against the world’s best tinters. A window tint installer for the past 13 years, 32-year-old Arendse’s victory on Saturday at the Kyalami race track in Johannesburg came against 10 finalists countrywide, which initially started out with about 300 contestants in June. His reward for winning the SA event sees Arendse travelling to San Antonio in Texas, US, on September 24 for a six-day stay to battle for the title of the world’s greatest automotive tinter at the International Window Film Tint-Off competition from September 27 to 29. “This is something I never imagined happening, even though I really wanted this win. I’m really looking forward to testing my mettle against the world’s best, and I hope to do South Africa proud!” “When I won the South African competition, I was proud of myself that all the hard work, the stress and building up and practising for the competition had worked out. I was very excited to be winning the competition,” said Arendse. “As part of the finals, we had to mould a sheet of film and pre-cut and mould it and fit it to the back window of a vehicle. We also had to make templates of the front driver side window and cut the film and fit it onto the glass. We had half an hour to do all that. “I entered the competition to show people what I can do with the skill of smash and grab window tinting. “I’m also very excited and nervous to be travelling to Texas, but will definitely do my best to represent South Africa and utilise my experience in that side of the competition and at the same time learn how they do things on that side of the world.” The tinting process prevents potential criminals from smashing and grabbing into a vehicle, as the tint makes the window shatter-proof and difficult to break, said Arendse, who added that a window would eventually break, but that the tinting process just prolongs the chances of it happening.  raphael.wolf@inl.co.za  