Officers were shot at, attacked with petrol bombs and pelted with stones when they arrested a resident, said police spokesperson Andre Traut. “It was during this scuffle that a police constable suffered injuries and was treated. Police were left with no choice but to act against the riotous crowd using stun grenades and rubber bullets. “One suspect, a 35-year-old man, was arrested on charges of dealing in liquor, public violence and resisting arrest. He was found in possession of R18 000 cash, which is believed to be the proceeds of trading in liquor illegally. Three cases of beer were also confiscated,” Traut said. The suspect was due to appear in court today. Provincial police commissioner Khombinkosi Jula condemned the residents’ violence and vowed that the police would not be intimidated by criminals who attempted to derail policing efforts. “Communities need to support police efforts to make the areas they live in safer,” Jula said. On September 9, fed-up residents joined a solidarity march calling for peace, justice and the deployment of police in Kensington. Meanwhile, the City’s Neighbourhood Safety Team Law Enforcement Officers were on patrol in Delft South when they received information of the burning of suspected stolen copper wire at an address in Bizet Street, Delft South. When they arrived at the property they could smell burnt plastic, according to Inspector Wayne Dyason. “As they approached the property, two male suspects fled, but the officers were able to catch one. A 25-year-old man was arrested and 17 metres of copper was recovered. “The officers then went in search of the cable casings and spotted two males digging trenches on Symphony Way in Delft. "The officers quickly pounced on the suspects and arrested a 30-year-old man and his 31-year-old accomplice. The officers returned to Bizet Street and recovered a further 13m of stolen cable,” Dyason said. On Sunday, the officers returned to the Bizet Street property and found one of the two suspects who had managed to flee the day before, and arrested him as well, Dyason said. Officers also went back to the property of the two suspects arrested along Symphony Way and found more stolen cable in a shack on their property. The suspects will appear in court once charged. Anyone with information about the attack is requested to anonymously contact Crime Stop at 086 001 0111 or SMS Crime Line at 32211.