Off-duty firefighters at 30 stations across the city held a lunchtime picket on Wednesday over their working conditions. Their grievances included the lack of danger pay, promotion obstacles and the decreasing rate of pay for 24-hour shifts, News24 reported. At the Roeland Street station in the CBD, off-duty firefighters held up placards while those who were on duty merely stood in a line outside in uniform. When an emergency call came through during the picket, those on-duty sped off in a fire truck. Speaking on condition of anonymity, firefighters from across the peninsula told News24 they were aggrieved that they worked around 240 hours a month but were paid only for 160 hours. A portion of the 24-hour shifts was spent on standby at the station. This time was apparently paid back with a standby allowance of 22.8% of the hourly rate. The firefighters believed they should be paid in full because they were still at work. "We are working outside of the basic conditions of employment. Our fire agreement has lapsed. "We are working for free even though we are at the station and away from our families and homes," said a firefighter based on the Cape Flats, who has been working for the City for more than a decade. Another, who has been a firefighter for 20 years, said he assisted with medical duties while on standby and hardly ever took sick leave. "Sorry for the language but I am gatvol. I am a senior firefighter and all the City is doing is showing us the finger." Staff also wanted danger pay because of the inherent dangers of the job. "A lot of members of the public don't know we don't receive a danger allowance and also don't realise the number of hours we are working. We work a 09:00 to 09:00 shift and sometimes leave an incident two days later," one of the firefighters said. There was also unhappiness about the monthly meal allowance of R170, and policies on acting allowances and promotions. All the firefighters News24 spoke to emphasised that they were not asking for increases – they just wanted to be paid fairly for all the work they did. When asked to comment on the grievances, the City's safety and security director, Richard Bosman, said he was aware of the picket. "We are currently engaging with personnel through their trade unions on the matter in order to reach an amicable resolution," he said. "The City is committed to finding a solution in the interest of rendering an effective service to our communities."