The dialogue held yesterday followed a number of media reports on pupil abductions and separate accidents involving overloaded minibus taxis that resulted in the death of a Grade 1 Holy Cross Primary school pupil and a Sea Point High pupil. A number of NGOs, parents, minibus drivers, law enforcement from all three tiers of government and education officials came together to engage and find solutions to issues of child safety. Zonnebloem community representative Karen Breytenbach said there were concerns about what happened when pupils were on their way to school and when they returned home. “There is a serious problem right now with kids getting to and from school safely in Zonnebloem/District 6, as a number of recent tragic incidents have highlighted. "We are here to give possible solutions and this is the first step. Muggings and other incidents of petty crime faced by pupils were also reported,” said Breytenbach. The Holy Cross pupil, 7, was killed in a minibus taxi carrying at least 29 other pupils. The driver had no licence and the vehicle was not roadworthy. The Sea Point High pupil, 16, was in a minibus taxi carrying at least 16. This vehicle was also not roadworthy and the driver was believed to be drunk. During discussions, a school governing board member at Holy Cross Primary said it was sad that a tragic incident had to happen before solutions and meetings such as these were held. He asked where traffic officials were to check on overloaded taxis, and how parents could allow their children to get into such vehicles. After-school waiting areas were also demanded and a task team or committee to look into pupil safety was proposed. Childsafe South Africa, an organisation established to work at the Red Cross War Memorial Children's Hospital, said a major source of injuries to children was road accidents. Captain Ezra October and Constable Denver Venketsamy said they often did patrols in the Zonnebloem area after recent abduction reports. “We cannot say it's a string of kidnappings or abductions when we are investigating two cases. “One happened on the 8th, and a sexual assault involving an 11-year-old is under investigation and a case of robbery in an incident that happened on August 31,” said October. He advised parents to be vigilant and said people should not spread “false and fear mongering claims” on social media as it incited panic. Venketsamy said pupils were now on high alert and walking in groups to ensure their safety.