The school was among a network of organisations celebrating the 31million blood stem cell donors from 55 different countries on Saturday. The odds, however, of finding a donor is 1 in 100 000, says the SA Bone Marrow Registry. The primary purpose was to highlight global co-operation in blood stem cell transplantation and spread awareness about the need for donors. The Sunflower fund said that since the first bone marrow transplant performed in the 1950s, over a million patients have received a transplant of blood stem cells for the treatment of a wide variety of blood cancers, and other diseases of the blood and bone marrow. Often, transplantation using healthy cells from a donor may be the only chance of cure. When there is no suitable donor within the family, an unrelated donor, who could be from a completely different part of the world, may be the best match for the patient. The World Marrow Donor Association's (WMDA) global network of organisations makes co-operation and a global exchange of information possible. “The Sunflower Fund is very close to my heart,” teacher Lauren Fischer said. She attended school with Chris Corlett, who inspired the Sunflower logo with his beautiful painting and in whose memory the organisation was founded. “He unfortunately lost his battle to leukaemia but so many others lives can be saved. We need to spread the word in order to show people that they can save lives by becoming a donor. “If 800 little humans in this school can understand why we need to support this cause and believe that they are hope, then they too can make a difference someday,” she said. Sunflower Fund chief executive Alana James said the organisation was in awe of the amount of effort the school had put in to mark the day. “From decorating the entrance of the school in Sunflower Day TOPES to creating outfits and props, rehearsing songs and getting the whole school involved in a gymnastrada parade, they truly made a moving statement of hope in commemoration of World Marrow Donor Day,” James said. To find out more about being a donor or to join The Sunflower Fund's stem cell registry, call 0800121082 or visit www.sunflowerfund.org.za