Johannesburg - The suspended head of the Hawks anti-corruption task team Zinhle Mnonopi has withdrawn her application to cross-examine Mcebisi Jonas at the state capture inquiry. Mnonopi's legal counsel Vincent Siwela told the chairperson of the state capture inquiry, Raymond Zondo, on Thursday that Mnonopi has decided to withdraw her application as she fears it might "prejudice" her. She was recently placed on suspension by Hawks head Lieutenant-General Godfrey Sibiya two weeks ago after she was implicated in the testimony of Mcebisi Jonas at the state capture inquiry. She has been asked to give reasons why she should not be suspended. Jonas told the inquiry that Mnonopi tried to force him to sign a false statement as an attempt to try and kill the case against Ajay Gupta, who Jonas claims tried to offer him R600 million if he agreed to take up a ministerial position as finance minister. Mnonopi fears that if she cross-examines Jonas then this likely affect a hearing she might face related to her suspension. The state capture inquiry was on Thursday hearing applications to cross-examine witnesses. A number of implicated individuals have applied to cross-exam and after hearing arguments Zondo is expected to rule on whether he will grant the applications. Duduzane Zuma's legal counsel Dawie Joubert told Zondo that his clients would like to testify at the inquiry, but he can't as he is facing parallel charges related to state capture. Zuma is facing charges related to the bribery of Jonas and has been released on bail and is expected to appear in January 2019 for the case. Joubert said Duduzane has been charged unfairly as it is clear from the evidence submitted that Jonas did not lay a criminal case against him. Duduzane's ability to appear before the inquiry is hampered by the case he is facing. Zondo appeared baffled by the argument made by Joubert constantly asking why Duduzane would fear to appear before the commission if he has already provided his version of events in an affidavit submitted to the commission. "He has told us his version and all that would remain is that he may be asked to help this commission to establish the truth‚" Zondo said. The inquiry continues. Political Bureau