Last year the budget was R6.1m, of which R4.1m was to be cash for associations, and R2m for support services. This year the City is expected to provide R4.172m in cash to the minstrel associations for their events, with a further R1.3m in support services and the waiver of rental hire costs for City-owned venues. The funding was approved at a Mayco meeting on Tuesday. The Kaapse Klopse Karnival Association (KKKA), which will host the Tweede Nuwe Jaar celebrations, will get a total of R3m. The SA United Christmas Bands Board got R200 000 for competitions, including a road march. The Cape District Minstrel Board got R200 000 for competitions and the Cape Malay Choir Board got R300 000 for choral competitions. About R422 000 is budgeted for other competitions. KKKA director Muneeb Gambeno said: “We are delighted with the City’s support. It reinforces the positive view that the City of Cape Town has of the Kaapse Klopse Karnival Association and our ability to redevelop the minstrel carnival into an event that is not only sustainable, but an event the entire City can be proud of. “The support is even more significant this year due to the very difficult economic climate we are experiencing. We are grateful and we thank the City of Cape Town on behalf of the entire minstrel fraternity.” Mayco member for safety and security, and social services JP Smith said one reason why the amount was lower was because not all organisations had applied for funding. “We have also looked at the City services funding towards the road march and while that allocation was reduced, the actual cash amount issued to the associations has increased, not decreased. The waiver of rental hire costs for City-owned venues will form part of support services for the associations,” said Smith. He emphasised that associations must follow the event permit process, which was separate to the event support process. An event permit may be approved or rejected based on the guidelines in the City’s Events Policy and the Events By-law, Smith added.