Johannesburg - Ajay Gupta has applied to cross-examine former GCIS CEO Themba Maseko and former ANC MP Vytie Mentor. Ajay's legal counsel, Mike Hellens, told the commission's chair deputy chief justice Raymond Zondo that Ajay Gupta has also filed an affidavit outlining his version of events with regards to Maseko and Mentor's testimonies. Hellens has also raised questions about the possible conditions that might be placed for cross-examination such as whether a person needs to present themselves to the commission in order to be allowed to cross-examine. Ajay Gupta was implicated in testimonies by former deputy finance minister Mcebisi Jonas who claims he offered him a ministerial post in 2015 and R600 million if he took up the job. Mentor also told the inquiry that Ajay offered her a ministerial post in 2010 at the family's Saxonworld compound. Maseko claimed that Ajay had asked him to assist the family access the government communication and information systems' (GCIS) R600 million media advertising budget. Maseko said he was fired by former president Jacob Zuma after he refused to help the Gupta family. Other implicated individuals that have applied to cross-examine include; businessman Fana Hlongwane who wants to cross-examine Mentor, Duuduzane Zuma has also applied to cross-examine along with Rajesh Gupta. The legal representative for the now-suspended head of anti-corruption at the Hawks Zinhle Mnonopi has applied to cross-examine Jonas. Zondo said he has received correspondence from the former president on his position, but he did not elaborate on what that position is. Former minister of public enterprises Lynne Brown has indicated that she would apply to cross-examine in instances where she has been implicated. Zondo has ruled that the legal counsels who have applied for cross-examination should file their submissions to the secretary of the commission by Tuesday at 10 am. The commission will hear the applications on Wednesday at 10 am subject to discussions with the legal teams representing Jonas, Mentor, and Maseko. The inquiry continues. IOL