Police are hunting a suspect who gunned down a man, allegedly set to appear on a drug-related case, outside the Khayelitsha Priority Crimes Court on Wednesday. Two bystanders were also injured during the incident, which police spokesperson Andre Traut said occurred just after 9am. “(We) can confirm that the circumstances surrounding the death of an adult male are being investigated after he was shot and killed outside Khayelitsha Court (yesterday) morning at around 9.20am. “It is alleged that two other persons were injured during the incident and had left the scene to seek medical assistance. The unknown suspect fled and is yet to be arrested,” Traut said. According to information, the shooting victim is from Mitchells Plain. Khayelitsha CPF cluster chairperson Major Mgxaji said they want the perpetrators to be brought to book. “Currently we do not have that much information available, but this is definitely a safety and security concern. The area where this happened does have criminal incidents, but incidents of this nature are very rare, therefore it is a concern to the community,” he said. He added the security at the Khayelitsha Magistrate's Court and Priority Crimes Court was a safety concern. Mgxaji has given assurances that the CPF would support the police in curbing crime in the community. Khayelitsha Development Forum chairperson Ndithini Tyhido said the community condemns the shooting. “We condemn this in the strongest sense, especially because it happened outside the court. Criminals are undermining state institutions and institutions of democracy,” Tyhido said. “We call on our police agencies and the Department of Justice to bulk up their security at these buildings to ensure the safety of the community and public. “We also need the City to come on board to address this issue because the spatial planning outside the court is unacceptable. We need our community to be safe and this needs to especially be done at state institutions,” Tyhido said. The Khayelitsha Forum extended their condolences to the families affected by the incident.