Donated by UWC, the school is one of nine to receive a science learning centre, which will help support the teaching and learning process in the subject. School principal Chris Mgubanto said: “I had never seen the pupils so joyful and the lab will inspire them to work even harder and achieve 100% in science. "We were used to sending our pupils to other schools for practicals, and that would be when they are available. Over the years we focused on theory and the pupils had to use their imaginations when we couldn’t do the practicals. The pupils have named the lab ‘Ilitha’ which means light.” In February, the school was recognised for achieving the most improved matric results in the district, and was rewarded for being the top physical science performer without a laboratory with a 85% pass in physical sciences. Director of the Science Learning Centre for Africa at UWC Professor Shaheed Hartley said: “Developing a culture of science teaching and learning will be a good start to improving (national senior certificate) and other assessments. “We have to start with the basics in terms of supporting teachers to have the confidence to teach science with an advanced level of understanding, knowledge and skills. Similarly, we have to be creative in providing learners with opportunities that will draw their interest and willingness to learn.” The Delft community also celebrated yesterday as it welcomed Delft South Primary School, opened by the Department of Basic Education. The school is one of 25 schools identified to benefit from the Accelerated Schools Infrastructure Delivery Initiative and was rebuilt from the ground up, with 45 new classrooms. Basic Education Minister Angie Motshekga said state-of-the-art school infrastructure restored pupils’ dignity. “It is clear that our school infrastructure build programme is beginning to bear fruits for our people. We must ensure that the physical infrastructure and environment of every school inspire learners to want to come to school and learn, and teachers to teach,” Motshekga said.