Enraged Masiphumelele residents are demanding a police station be built and increased police visibility in the area after two women were sexually assaulted in separate incidents. The first incident happened in Z Section in the Wetlands informal settlement on Sunday night, where residents allegedly assaulted a 33-year-old man, who they claim to have caught in the act. Police spokesperson Wesley Twigg confirmed the man was arrested for an alleged rape and appeared in a Simon’s Town court on Monday. Community leader Tshepo Moletsana said: “The woman was a few metres away from her house when she was dragged by the man, who she knows, to an open space and was allegedly raped. Residents heard her screaming, found the man still at the scene and beat him out of anger. "He was later rescued from the angry mob by the police,” said Moletsana. “A few hours after the police had left, residents heard another woman crying for help in A Section. A man who was known in the area forced the door open in the house where the woman was staying alone and raped her. "By the time the residents arrived at the house, the perpetrator had fled.” Moletsana said the rapist was still on the run and the woman had been provided with counselling. “The problem is that we don’t have a proper police station, we only have a mobile one. "The mobile police station closes by 6pm and, as you know, most incidents happen at night. People have to travel 5km if it is closed and, in this case, the police came (to prevent the mob from beating the suspect). "To assist police we have started a patrolling team. Next month we will be launching a community police forum, and neighbourhood watches are in the process of being established,” said Moletsana. Meanwhile, Stellenbosch police have appealed for the public’s assistance in locating a man wanted for rape. The suspect approached the victim in the Stellenbosch area last month and threatened her with a knife, before raping her. Anyone with information can contact the Stellenbosch FCS unit on 021 809 9168 or Crime Stop on 086 001 0111.