Monyatsi, the first princess at the first Miss Wheelchair World held in Poland last October, and Universal Accessibility Hub’s ambassador, needs R50 000 for her travelling, accommodation and insurance at the upcoming Massira Inclusive, which takes place in Colombo, Sri Lanka, from September 20. The Massira Inclusive fashion show, compromising able and disabled participants, creates an awareness around challenges faced in the world of fashion for people living with disabilities. The show provides a platform where the disabled can work with experts in the fashion and design industry to adopt mainstream clothing lines to be inclusive. Monyatsi also represented South Africa in wheelchair basketball at the 2012 and 2015 Paralympics and the 2009 World Cup. Speaking on behalf of the Universal Accessibility Hub, Shama Nathoo said Monyatsi will be exposed to a fashion space that works towards the removal of barriers to showcase inclusivity. Donations for Monyatsi can be submitted at www.uahub.org.za Meanwhile, anti-rhino-poaching activist Hunter Mitchell is on a mission to find 10 rhino-adoring youngsters to celebrate World Rhino Day with him on September 22. The 11-year-old aims to save South Africa’s special rhinos and has raised over R225 000 towards rescuing, raising and rehabilitating injured and orphaned rhinos. “My goal for World Rhino Day is to bring together an amazing group of young people who want to take responsibility for the future of our rhinos and stand up for our rhinos,” Hunter said. “I have put out a challenge on the Aquila Private Game Reserve (in Touws River) Facebook Page, looking for 10 rhino warriors to join me for the day at Aquila to learn more about rhinos, see rhinos in the wild and spend time coming up with ideas to work together for our precious rhinos.” To qualify to enter Hunter’s challenge and become part of his 10 rhino warriors, youngsters need to be 18 or younger and submit a video under 60 seconds to Aquila about how much they love rhinos. The closing date is Friday. The 10 winners, who must be living in the Western Cape, will be chosen by the judges. Winners will be announced on September 18.  For more details, visit https://www.facebook.com/Aquilasafari/videos/247577825953424/ 