Oom Pops said the moment was both a happy and a sad one, as the three-year-battle to have his horses returned to him felt like it had dragged on. He, along with nine other small-scale farmers from Caledon, Greyton-Genadendal and Riviersonderend, had taken the municipality to court following their instituting a by-law, allowing for the impounding of their livestock for wandering into public or commonage. Following discussions, an agreement was eventually reached, which meant Oom Pops could collect his horses yesterday. “They are like my children, I raised them since they were fillies, and their coming back home means I can work and earn money again. I am a bit sad as my older horses are not all here,” he said. Oom Pops will now have to find new grazing lands. The Trust for Community Outreach spokesperson Boyce Toms hailed Oom Pops’ horses return as a victory for rural farmers. “We have engaged the municipality on the issue of land and found them less than responsive to dealing with the matter. I would not be surprised if we found ourselves back in court, unless the municipality comes to the table and engages to find alternative remedies that benefits everyone,” he said. Municipality spokesperson Hugo Geldenhuys said he was not privy to any information regarding discussion pertaining to the matter of land and small-scale farmers and could not comment thereon. Take a bow Dominic and Oom Pops – Editor Every now and again a story happens along of the little person winning a seemingly impossible battle against mighty officialdom. When we have had a little hand in it, the collective victory makes journalism all worthwhile again. This is the story of Oom Pops. Our Dominic Adriaanse reports today of Antony “Oom Pops” Sampson scoring a landmark David vs Goliath victory over the Theewaterskloof municipality in Caledon for the release of his six impounded horses. Dominic was on hand to witness that moment of sweet victory yesterday when Oom Pops helped round his “children” to finally take them home. We were alerted to his plight about 20 months ago by NGO The Trust for Community Outreach and Education. Since then Dominic has made eight trips to Caledon, a two-hour drive from our Newspaper House offices in the city centre, and to Riviersonderend, about 45 minutes from Caledon. He just wouldn’t let the story go, and gave life to the Cape Times’s ethos of providing a bridge between the urban and rural, among many others. He brought to public attention the plight of small-scale farmers and held the municipality to account, consistently, like a bulldog. So, take a bow Dominic, we’re so proud of you. It makes us mindful of a famous saying of uTata Nelson Mandela - which is a favourite at the Cape Times and Independent Media, for obvious reasons - “it always seems impossible until it is done”.