The hospital is celebrating Heart Month through its Helping2Heal Little Hearts campaign to help young girls like Camlin, 6. Statistics show 1% of babies are born with a heart defect, but in some cases this is only diagnosed at a later stage in a child’s development. When Camlin was 4, she was diagnosed with acute and chronic constrictive pericarditis, an inflammation of the two layers of the thin, sac-like membrane that surrounds the heart. Camlin, from Villiersdorp, was initially diagnosed with meningitis and referred to the Caledon Hospital. While being treated there, her temperature continued to spike, and doctors decided to refer her to Worcester Hospital. From there she was rushed to Tygerberg Hospital where she underwent various tests and scans, and was diagnosed with a heart condition. In the blink of an eye, her family was in an ambulance on their way to Red Cross Children’s War Memorial Hospital for an immediate life-saving surgery. Doctors instantly noticed that she had a hole in the heart as well as a leaking valve. Camlin had her third heart surgery last month, which was deemed successful. The most recent surgery was required to replace her aortic valve, a valve between the left ventricle and the aorta. The hospital says her recovery has been exceptional, but she continues to visit the hospital for regular check-ups and any emergencies. Children’s Hospital Trust chief executive Louise Driver says thanks to the hospital’s CathCHAT technology, patients like Camlin are given second, third, and even fourth chances at life. “Cardiologists are able to perform hundreds of heart surgeries every year that are less invasive than traditional heart surgery. ‘‘This interventional cardiology makes the operational procedure less traumatic for children and their families,” she says. CathCHAT also enables procedures to be transmitted live online, bringing heart treatment learning technology to other African countries, training clinicians and healing children across the continent. Over the last year alone, 300 to 400 children’s lives were saved thanks to this leading-edge facility at the Hospital, Driver says. Visit www.childrenshospitaltrust.org.za/donate/ to donate.