Deputy mayor Ian Neilson said yesterday dam levels had declined by 0.5% to 21.5% over the past week. The City’s advanced pressure management programme is, however, yielding results, with 50 million litres of water saved on average per day through the tireless efforts of Water and Sanitation Department staff, he said. “Our first-phase target for this programme was to save 52million litres per day and we have achieved this ahead of schedule,” Neilson said. The City has also been expanding its roll-out of pressure testing. The results will be used to implement more automated pressure zones across the metro to help reduce water usage. Work on establishing additional zones continues. “This lies at the heart of our advanced pressure management programmes. By creating automated pressure zones the City is able to adjust water pressure remotely and more efficiently implement pressure management. This technology reduces the pressure of the flow of water and thus helps to reduce water usage as well as bursts and leaks,” Neilson said. The City has successfully tested areas that include the CBD, Green Point, Paarden Eiland, Woodstock, Salt River, Epping, Delft, Brooklyn and Dunoon. Programmes for additional water augmentation also continue, with the first water delivered from the Waterfront desalination plant, which has a capacity for producing 2million litres a day. Work continues at other desalination plants and aquifer programmes. “We must use only 450million litres a day to stretch available water supplies through the rest of the year, come rain or shine,” Neilson said. Local Government, Environmental Affairs and Development Planning MEC Anton Bredell said the average dam levels across the Western Cape was at 17.16% The provincial water situation was being assessed on an ongoing basis. “The Western Cape Disaster Management Centre continues to manage the ongoing water challenges. “Dam levels are falling much slower at the moment than has been the case, but the extreme low levels remain a major cause for concern.”