Energy Minister Jeff Radebe yesterday signed renewable energy agreements with independent power producers on behalf of state-owned power utility Eskom. The Department of Energy said the 27 projects, located mainly in rural parts, would amount to R55.92 billion in new direct investment in the energy sector and create much-needed jobs. The signing of PPAs has been mired in delays, amid a push for nuclear energy, and a revolving door of energy minister appointees. Former president Jacob Zuma last year appointed the former minister of state security, David Mahlobo, as energy minister. He replaced Mmamoloko Kubayi. In March last year, her predecessor, Tina Joemat-Pettersson, was axed from 
the position. The latest delay saw the high court throw out a bid by the National Union of Metalworkers of South Africa (Numsa) and Transform RSA to block the deal, which they said would lead to at least 
30 000 job losses in Mpumalanga, home to five Eskom coal-fired power stations. The SA Wind Energy Association (Sawea) said the country’s manufacturing and construction industries stand to benefit immediately from the conclusion of these PPAs as equipment orders can now be placed and construction contracts concluded. The recovery of the domestic manufacturing industry is necessitated by the effects of the delay, which saw several manufacturing facilities having to retrench staff due to a lack of further component orders, Sawea said. Sawea chief executive Brenda Martin said the achievement of this final step in the procurement process represents an important milestone for good energy 
governance. “We welcome the Department of Energy’s determination to unlock rural development and much-needed jobs, particularly in the construction and manufacturing sectors, to provide assurance to the employees of the Industry and to regain investor confidence,” she said. SA Photovoltaic Industry Association (Sapvia) chairperson Davin Chown said: “It has been a long, drawn-out process to prove to South Africa, investors and the entire energy community that renewables have their place and role to play in a rationally decided energy mix.” The signing of these PPAs will boost and revitalise long-term investor confidence, local and international investment, and more specifically job creation and retention in this 
market, Sapvia said. More than 61 000 jobs and 
2 305MW of energy added to the mix is only the beginning of what this industry can achieve, it added. “Renewables has been able to upskill South Africans, develop a new set of skills for the future of this country, for a vibrant energy sector which is considered a sunrise sector, and will deliver benefits to all South Africans for many generations to come,” Chown said. Sapvia programme manager Niveshen Govender said: “We have full confidence in government’s ability to drive this process forward, together with the business sector and other social partners.” Independent renewables consultancy K2 Management South Africa described REIPPPP as a world-renowned renewables auction programme, before it was stalled for the last two-and-a-half years, which put immense pressure on South Africa’s renewables sector, hindering its growth and subsequent investment injection in the region, K2 director Hebren James said: “The renewables sector is on the cusp of meaningful growth as the globe focuses on the future of energy and relies less on fossil fuels. “(Yesterday’s) signing of the outstanding PPAs is a very positive move towards the important growth of renewables in South Africa. “Getting these projects off the ground will pave the way for South Africa to fulfil its potential of being a true leader in large-scale, clean energy deployment.”  lisa.isaacs@inl.co.za 