South African property icon and leading businesswoman Mrs Pam Golding, founder and life president of the Pam Golding Property group, passed away peacefully on Monday at her home Wittebomen in Constantia. She was 90. "Having turned what began as a hobby into a lifelong passion, with fearless entrepreneurial flair for people, property and business – and creating what ultimately became a thriving, global property company – Mrs Golding set the highly competitive property industry on a new course which continues to this day," the property group said in a statement. "Courageous, determined and with the unique charm and tenacity to overcome any challenge, she launched The Pam Golding Property Group in 1976 at a time when the real estate industry was male-dominated and still somewhat of a ‘home industry’. "She quickly identified a niche in the market for a discreet and professional property agency in South Africa, in the process building a reputation for selling the country’s most luxurious homes and building the integrity, trust and respect of the Pam Golding Properties brand. "In 1986 she took a courageous leap of faith by opening an office in London – at a time when the country’s international image was at its worst. "Together with her son and chief executive Andrew, the business soon expanded further abroad over the following years, to more than 300 offices across southern Africa and in various countries on the African continent, Europe and the Indian Ocean Islands. "An inspiration to women across generations throughout South Africa and indeed the globe, Mrs Golding was highly revered by her peers, the property industry and the business sector at large, receiving numerous accolades and awards throughout her illustrious  career. "Admired and respected by clients and dearly loved by colleagues, agents and staff alike, her natural warmth and sincere interest in everyone she encountered were trademark characteristics which endeared her to all. "She will be deeply missed by her family including sons Peter and Andrew, daughter Jilly, their spouses and 10 grandchildren." Adapted from press release