Her appointment comes after under-fire former principal Charmaine Murray retired last year as a result of protests at the school over what pupils called “institutionalised racism” perpetuated by the school’s code of conduct. In September 2016, unrest erupted after a number of black pupils claimed Sans Souci’s rules did not accommodate their natural hair, and they were not allowed to speak their home language if it wasn’t English. Parents and teachers also spoke out and called for Murray's dismissal. O’Shea began her teaching career in 1995. She was head of department at Fezeke High School in Gugulethu, deputy principal of Crystal Secondary School in Hanover Park, and in 2010 was appointed principal at Tafelsig High School in Mitchells Plain. “Although having 23 years of teaching experience, it's quite daunting coming into a new environment where all eyes are on you, especially because of the school’s history. “But I’m excited. I’m ready for a new challenge. Let’s make a difference in the lives of the girls,” O’Shea said. She had been encouraged by friends and colleagues to apply for the job, she added, and felt that her experience working with pupils of different races, religions and cultures would help her relate to pupils who previously felt misunderstood. “I think it is a new dawn. People could always automatically assume that things should stay the same. People unfortunately have the perception that sometimes a pale face is better and can do a better job. That’s not true. We all have our own skills and talents. I’m up for this job,” she said. “I want us to build a new Sans Souci, learn from our past, move forward and be the best we can be.” Interview committee chairperson Mogamad Esau said it was an emotional day. “This is a culmination of a process that started in September 2016. It is unlikely we would have had this if it weren’t for those brave and courageous pupils at this school who confronted oppression and suppression,” Esau said. There were 16 applicants for the position, seven were shortlisted, and O’Shea was found to be the best candidate. “What made our task so much easier is that we had a shared vision. We always asked ourselves, what is in the best interests of the pupils and school? We are fortunate to have her at our school,” he added. Representative Council of Learners (RCL) president Khanya Yabo said pupils were part of an era of change. Addressing O’Shea, she said the girls wanted their new principal to be part of their movement and transformation. “During and after the protests it took a lot from us to be brave enough and stand together as sisters. "The three things we were fighting for were democracy, transparency and change. But, most of all, we wanted our voices to be heard. As strong girls, we stood united, and we fought for this change. From now on, we are going up.”  lisa.isaacs@inl.co.za 