The Khayelitsha resident, living in a one-room shack, painted a bleak picture of their living conditions, saying she felt the government failed to prioritise people like her. Mfusi became blind due to high blood pressure and was diagnosed diabetic in 2008. The youngest of the children is 4-year-old Anele and the 
eldest 14-year-old Siyamcela. Mfusi complained that when it rained, the shack flooded, there was no privacy and her grandchildren had to bath, cook and eat in the same space. She spends a significant part of her old age pension on fixing her shack. All the grandchildren are receiving child support grants from the government. When the Cape Times visited the home, the grandchildren were playing outside and Mfusi was sitting on one of the two beds. There is one table where all the dishes were placed and everyone’s clothing is placed underneath the two beds. The door is broken and there is only one window. There is no proper ceiling on the roof. Most of the grandchildren sleep on the floor. “I feel vulnerable and my safety and that of the children is compromised because we use nails to lock the door,” said Mfusi. “The space is too small for all of us and privacy is a problem, but we have no choice and the children are adapting to this environment. How we live here is affecting the children’s schooling as well. “As much as it is not easy, it is not nice staying like this. To go to the toilet, I have to wait for the children to come back from school.” Sihle Ngobese, spokesperson for Social Development MEC Albert Fritz, said: “Social workers from the Khayelitsha Local Office will make contact with the family, with the view of assessing what further assistance can be rendered to the family.” He said the primary issue for the family was housing. “Therefore I’ll let our colleagues at Human Settlements take the lead on this one. “However, we will still visit the family to assess what measures we can take in the interim.” Ntomboxolo Majoba-Somdaka, spokesperson for Human Settlements MEC Bonginkosi Madikizela, told the Cape Times there were no records of Nomathemba on the Housing Subsidy System (HSS) or the City of Cape Town’s waiting list. “Because prioritising the most deserving, especially the elderly and the disabled, is one of our strategic goals, officials from the department will visit Mrs Mfusi and investigate her case. “They will also assist her with the registration process and advise accordingly.”