The painting, flanked by the murals of Archbishop Emeritus Desmond Tutu and president Nelson Mandela, in Short Market Street, was revealed on Monday. After it was posted on social media, the mural and the artist came under heavy criticism, with users saying it looked nothing like maWinnie. Nompumelelo Nxozi commented on Facebook: “Whoever made this painting needs to look for a new career or hobby, painting/drawing is not for him. It’s a no from me. It’s actually an insult to the whole nation.” Another user, Mangaliso Kumalo, posted: “I don’t know who did this but this isn’t Mam’ Winnie at all it just looks like a dude in a doek.” Wareley said the image they were commenting on was incomplete. “Being raised by a woman, it holds more value for me to know what another strong woman has done. We owe a lot to her. I look up to her. Doing this was an honour for me. I was nervous going into it, normally going into a commission for one person or team, this time for a nation. “Why would I intend to tarnish her memory? People can turn anything into a negative stance. Did they even take the time to come and view the finished version?” He said he did not take the criticism to heart because it was the nature of art. “If I took everything to heart I would never last in this industry,” he said. Western Cape ANC secretary Faiez Jacobs called on the public rather not to criticise, but to contribute. He said they had called for volunteers to make murals in celebration of maWinnie. “I think there is a lot of goodwill and love for maWinnie. The artist was not formerly paid and we all have our picture of maWinnie in our head,” said Jacobs. “The intention was good, let’s remember the legacy: she was a fighter against patriarchy, a leader who gave young women a role model and showed them that they could be in the family, independent from a man, and fight for justice. “It is not about the mural being nice or ugly, let us remember the words and actions from maWinnie.” The Cape Times took to the streets and asked the public for their thoughts on the mural. Faizel Davids from Mitchells Plain said: “It is a very nice picture, I think Winnie looks very sad in the painting. The picture is telling me that she died very sad.” Esther Mert from Plumstead added: “Quite frankly, this is not her. She was a very beautiful woman. This isn’t her. Maybe just her doek. It’s not even her lookalike.” Thapelo Ntsalong said: “I think it is a good reminder of maWinnie and I would rate it a 6 out of 10 as it doesn’t seem to be complete.”