The fear that engulfed the residents, most of them single parents, was sparked by the shooting of a man at the weekend. Police spokesperson André Traut said circumstances surrounding the case were being investigated after a man was shot and killed at about 4.50pm in the informal settlement on Saturday. He said no one had been arrested. Co-founder of Marikana patrollers and community leader Xolani Tukwayo said a man who was known only as Rasta was shot and killed in his house by men who wanted money. “The neighbours heard the gunshots and when they went to check, he was lying in a pool of blood. Some people say they saw men walking out. Before the shooting many traumatised residents had come to us leaders after they had been  victimised in their homes. "These criminals are brutal. If one doesn’t have money, they beat you up and women are sexually assaulted.” Tukwayo said yesterday he had assisted three families who were moving out of the area and more might leave. Last year, community leaders had resorted to protecting their own families by forming a neighbourhood patrol.They would escort those returning from work late and ensure that they arrived home safely. Tukwayo said that after calm was restored last year, a proper neighbourhood watch was formed and more people were deployed. He said this had ended last year, as they never received the equipment they were promised and people did not want to put their lives at risk. The informal settlement made headlines in November, after police made a breakthrough and arrested four suspects believed to have been linked to the killings of the 11 victims. Community leader Duran Maki said police were doing their best to create a safe  environment for residents, but their efforts were being overshadowed, as there were now more criminals in the area. “Last year, our problem was that police could not be trusted, as whistle-blowers were killed by the gangs. After a new station commander was introduced, the area was better and people were arrested. "The community is also working with the police but there is  not much that can be done in a dark area. Electricity would make a difference.”