Community Policing Forum chairperson Abie Isaacs said the area remained tense as shootings had not stopped since it flared up. Police spokesperson Noloyiso Rwexana said police were  currently investigating four cases of murder and one attempted murder case for incidents that occurred in the space of two days. “According to reports, on Saturday at about 11am, members attended to a complaint of a shooting on the corner of Bignonia and Acacia Street, Lentegeur. ‘‘Upon their arrival, they found a 23-year-old man with a gunshot wound. He was declared dead at the scene.”. The next day, police attended to two shooting incidents, Rwexana said. “On Sunday at about 9.10pm, police attended to a complaint of a shooting at Agapanthus  Street, Lentegeur. ‘‘They found three men aged between 19 and 21 with gunshot wounds. “In a separate shooting incident on the same day, police attended to a complaint at Mitchells Plain Hospital where doctors were treating a 46-year-old man who had a gunshot wound. "The ncident took place in Camellia Street, Lentegeur. An attempted murder case has been opened,” Rwexana said. No arrests have been made yet in any of the cases and the investigations continue. Isaacs said there had been a flare-up in shootings in the area. “Due to security reasons, it cannot be confirmed yet if the shootings are gang-related. However, there has been a spike in shootings in recent weeks. “On Sunday there was supposed to be a gathering to initiate peace talks in Eastridge, but this never materialised. We are still hopeful for peace in the area,” he said. Isaacs said the community needed more resources  to help curb crime. “We have to beg for more resources in the area. The four murders that took place happened right where I live and these are children who grew up in front of me. “We are urging residents to come forward with information, because most times they know where the guns are hidden. We are expecting a visit from the national minister of police shortly,” Isaacs said. Anyone with information can contact Crime Stop at 086 001011 or SMS Crime Line at 32211.  chevon.booysen@inl.co.za 