Dumisani Ximbi, chairperson of the select committee on petitions and executive undertakings, has been accused of "deplorable and unparliamentary conduct" and a failure to inform members of the committee about his oversight visit to the Khayelitsha District Hospital (KDH). The DA said in a statement he allegedly “confronted” personnel at the hospital, accusing staff at the clinic of negligence and proceeded to reprimand doctors in front of patients. "According to Dr Beth Engelbrecht, head of the Western Cape Department of Health, the visit has left KDH personnel traumatised." The DA believes this incident was "an attempt by an ANC chairperson to score cheap political points by discrediting Western Cape health officials". The DA is to refer Ximbi to Parliament’s ethics committee in terms of section 4 of the parliamentary code of conduct. "The DA has always been a proponent of MPs' constitutional mandate to perform oversight. "However, in Ximbi’s case, his claims that he conducted the oversight as part of a parliamentary select committee is disingenuous because he failed to notify the members of the committee of his plans. "This seems to point towards an abuse of parliamentary funds and if the ethics committee finds any evidence of wrongdoing, Ximbi must reimburse the legislature. "It would seem as though Ximbi was intent on excluding members of the committee and that this was never meant to be a select committee oversight but rather an attempt by an ANC chairperson to score cheap political points by discrediting Western Cape health officials. "The DA will also refer the matter of Ximbi allegedly 'confronting' personnel at the Khayelitsha District Hospital to the ethics committee. "Ximbi allegedly accused staff at the clinic of negligence and proceeded to reprimand doctors in front of patients. "According to Dr Beth Engelbrecht, head of the Western Cape Department of Health, the visit has left KDH personnel traumatised. "If these allegations are true, it is downright deplorable and urgent disciplinary action against Ximbi should be instituted. "The DA calls on Ximbi to issue a formal apology to the Khayelitsha District Hospital personnel and patients for his alleged conduct. "The DA is of the view that Ximbi’s conduct was unparliamentary and we trust that Parliament’s ethics committee will investigate this incident and hold him fully accountable."