Evans’s decade-old organisation faced permanent closure earlier this year if they could not find alternative premises to run her woman empowerment, child protection and family strengthening centre. Last month they had only one container to move to the new premises. Earlier this week, they started with their services from the new facility. The Cafda property where the organisation had been running from was sold to make space for a new school in the area. Through the goodwill and help of the One Thousand Women, One Voice organisation, Evans moved to Lavender Hill High School, where she signed a 99-year lease. They now operate from five containers. Paint has been donated to the organisation. Excited volunteers were abuzz as they set about renovating and moving into their new spaces in this crime-
ridden area. Yesterday, Evans was notified by one of her volunteers that one of their containers had been burgled. “When I got that message, my heart just sank. The perpetrator burgled the space meant for the counselling rooms and made off with stationery and a speaker used 
for therapy. “A window was broken and burglar bars that were installed the day before were ripped off to access the container. The music player was also damaged,” Evans said. The incident has not deterred her and her team of 17 volunteers. “I went door to door to every drug lord’s house in the area and told them I would not tolerate this violation of my organisation’s space. Someone must know something, but we will not move from this area,” she insisted. Evans said the organisation was started in the garage of her home 10 years ago. “The idea for this organisation was born in the Eastern Cape when I was busy with a gender-based research project as a field officer. “I resigned from the organisation that I was working at, and on my way home I witnessed a fight in my road, and this man was kicking a woman in her face. “I drove with the intention to stop him and clipped him with the mirror on my car, and I jumped out, asking him what he was doing, and the ironic part was that the woman jumped up and told me it was none of my business. “After I left the scene, I went home, and when I got there,
I told my husband I wanted to start a project. “Two weeks later, that is where PAB was born, in my garage with what I thought was going to be a small support programme for women in my dining room,” she said. A Lavender Hill High School alumna herself, Evans said she was determined to restore dignity to her community. “I have set the bar very high for this community. “Despite it being a community at risk, I cannot deprive them of these services that so many need. “I have used the value of my voice to advocate for this community, and as a human rights activist I will bring back the lavender.”