De Lille was among a number of speakers at Madikizela-
Mandela’s memorial service in Brandfort, Free State, which was organised by the EFF. Madikizela-Mandela was banished to the small town in 1977 by the apartheid government as she continued her militant opposition to the oppressive regime. De Lille, who remains banned from political activities by the official opposition and is going through a disciplinary process, recounted how she received a call from Madikizela-Mandela asking her about her battles with 
the DA. “The last time she phoned me was in December and she asked in that husky voice, ‘what are these boys doing to you? Those boys don’t know who they are dealing with’, and then she laughed and laughed. And I assured her that I have got everything under control,” De Lille said. The fiery former PAC leader has maintained that the disciplinary action and allegations of power abuse and maladministration by the DA were trumped up, and that they were aimed at dislodging her from the helm of the City. In February, a motion of no confidence against De Lille, which was sanctioned by the DA, failed despite the party enjoying a majority in the City, after the ANC resolved to defend her from being removed. At its federal congress, the DA adopted the so-called “De Lille clause” in a bid to expel its public representatives, should they refuse to leave their posts within 48 hours after the party instructs them to step down. She said Madikizela-
Mandela’s fearlessness, principled political conduct and frankness has taught her to speak truth to power. “We all know Mama Winnie, she always spoke truth to power and Mama Winnie’s truth did not change. She spoke truth to power to the previous regime and she spoke truth to power to the current regime because the truth never changed. That is how we know Mama Winnie - fearless. “You know what I learnt from Mama Winnie is that politics is not for sissies. When you are in politics, there are no rules for men, and there are no rules for women. “There are just rules, and she played by the rules and she played the game better than most of them. “She wasn’t the kind of politician who when you hit her on the one cheek, she gives you the other cheek. She klapped you back. "What you have today, you have passive politicians who are there for their stomachs and who are not there for the people of our country.” She slammed those who criticised Madikizela-Mandela’s legacy, accusing them of having kept the apartheid regime in power. “I want to speak about all of those critics who are now criticising our mother and I want to say to them that they are the same critics who did not say anything in the struggle against apartheid. “Today, you cannot find anyone who supported apartheid. Who are they to criticise our mother? One day, comrade Juju (Julius Malema), we must go and fetch that voters roll and we will see how they voted for apartheid,” said De Lille. She said the main problem was that South Africans were not angry enough about the problems plaguing the country that needed to be addressed. EFF leader Julius Malema called for the return of land 
as a tribute to Madikizela-
Mandela. “Mama wanted the land, just like the EFF. We don’t hate white people, they have naturalised. They are like the tree and the grass here. We are saying to the white people share the land. “We are saying we want the majority of people on this land to own the land and that the minority be allocated land by us, the owners of the land. 
Not the other way around,” Malema said. “That’s why we must stop saying we want jobs. We must say we want the land and we will work the land,” he said. He accused the media of perpetrating the rhetoric that the expropriation of land without compensation was a targeted victimisation of white South Africans. “I am worried about how the journalists report on the land. “They are not countering the rhetoric that there is a white genocide in South Africa, and yet there is no case in South Africa of any white person killed because we want land. “There is no white person that has been forced out of their property, not even by the EFF,”  Malema said.