President Cyril Ramaphosa declared this week that Madikizela-Mandela - a recipient of the Order of Luthuli in silver for her “excellent contribution to the fight for the liberation of the people of South Africa” - will be honoured with a Special Official Funeral Category 1 on April 14 at Orlando Stadium in Soweto. This type of funeral entails elements of military ceremonial honours and is declared, in line with the Presidency’s State, Official and Provincial Official Funeral Policy, for persons of extraordinary credentials specifically designated by the president. Ramaphosa declared 10 national days of mourning from next Tuesday and the national flag will fly at half-mast until the evening of April 14. University of the Western Cape political studies Professor Bheki Mngomezulu said flying a flag at half-mast is a 17th century practice. “It means many things, including a salute, respect or mourning,” he said. There is no universal understanding of the symbolism of this action, he added. “One version is that it 
symbolises giving space to the invisible flag of death. “It is appropriate because maWinnie is respected as ‘the mother of the nation’ and is seen as one of the liberation icons. As such, she is being saluted and respected. “At the same time, the nation is in mourning,” Mngomezulu said. In local artist Haroon Gunn-Salie’s installation, currently on display at the Goodman Gallery in Woodstock, three white flags each hang at half-mast, symbolising loss, mourning and honour. Gunn-Salie’s work forms part of the Of Sovereignty 
and Safety exhibition, an exploration of the power dynamics in contemporary South African society. Created in 2014, two of the three 
flags represented Nelson 
Mandela and the 2012 Marikana massacre victims, Gunn-Salie said. Gunn-Salie created the work shortly after Mandela had died. “In December 2013, it was the first time I had seen the flags at half-mast and started researching it. “The work presents a white flag, not meaning surrender, but peace,” he said. “But also the flags are removed of their
nationalist values. The politics is removed and bleached essentially.” He created the third flag for the next South African hero to fall, which now represents Madikizela-Mandela, he said. “We all salute her, she was an icon. “It flies in the face of claims that she was merely the wife of a president. She was so much more. “It is only appropriate that she is being honoured in this half mast action, as her partner was,” he said. The exhibition is on until Saturday.