The two women could not contain their excitement about his release from Victor Verster Prison, and their conversation in the car was all about that. “Winnie was so excited that she would not have to visit her husband in prison any more,” Omar recalled. Omar, a dedicated human rights campaigner who had endured harassment from the apartheid state along with her late husband, Dullah Omar, an ANC member and minister in the portfolios of justice and transport, said she fetched maWinnie from the airport and drove her to see Mandela on Sunday, February 11, 1990. It was not the first time Omar had escorted her to see Mandela. “I met her after Mr Mandela was transferred from Robben Island to Pollsmoor Prison. My husband used to be the lawyer for Mr Mandela on the island. "I always went to fetch her at the airport and take her to see Mr Mandela. They had no family in Cape Town; we were her family. We were very close and loved each other very much. She was a very warm person,” Farida said. MaWinnie would sometimes be in Cape Town only for a few hours. On the occasion that she stayed overnight, she would sleep at the Omars’ Rylands Estate home. “It was very sad for me whenever she left. She was so beautiful and so wonderful. The night before (Mandela’s release from Victor Verster Prison), we were busy preparing sandwiches for the comrades and all the people who were going to be there. "We were so, so busy and Dullah just said to me that I must go fetch Winnie tomorrow morning at the airport. I was so excited, I just dropped everything “I was alone when I went to fetch her, and Dullah and the children were at the Parade already. “When I got to the airport, the flight was delayed, and I was in agony because I wanted her to come already,” Farida said. She last saw Madikizela-
Mandela about two years ago at a reunion of those who went to fetch Mandela in Paarl. Rivonia trialist Denis Goldberg yesterday also remembered maWinnie and how she had supported him, along with Mandela, Govan Mbeki, Walter Sisulu and six other Umkhonto we Sizwe guerrillas when they were tried from June 1963 to October 1964 in the Pretoria Supreme Court. Goldberg was charged under the Sabotage and Suppression of Communism acts for campaigning to overthrow the apartheid government by “violent revolution” and assisting an “armed invasion of the country by foreign troops”. He was the only white person sentenced in the Rivonia Trial and spent 22 years in prison. “She’s (in) Joburg and I’m (in) Cape Town, so I knew her really when she sat in court every day during the Rivonia Trial. She was really quite radiant and dominating. Her presence there was very important at the time. "And she came along in traditional dress with her cousin, and was the centre of attention in the court, supporting Nelson and the rest of us,” Goldberg recalled. Madikizela-Mandela was not just the voice of her husband, Goldberg said; she grew into the role of a political figure in her own right. “(She) stepped up to the plate, so to speak, and the harassment of being in the limelight all the time, and later after all the arrests and detention and solitary confinement, and the banishment to Brandfort - this made a very hard, tough lady out of her, and in the course of her struggle,” Goldberg said. Madikizela-Mandela’s contribution to liberation overrides her mistakes, he said. “It’s not an easy position to be in, with the world spotlight on her, the focus of the security establishment, and yet you see there she is at the end of her life being honoured, as she deserves to be honoured. “I’d like to think of her as representing a period of Struggle. I can’t call her ‘ma’; she was younger than me. And so I rather refer to her as our sister and a warrior in struggle. 
I admire her,” Goldberg said.  francesca.villette@inl.co.za   lisa.isaacs@inl.co.za 