“We are over the moon, we have been waiting for justice for so long. Finally it seems to have arrived. We are also grateful to the Legal Resources Centre (LRC) for their hard work over the past eight years. “They have worked tirelessly for us in our community and in the courts. If you consider the comments of the judge on how the commission delayed and opposed our claim, I believe that, but for the tireless work of the LRC, we would still be without land.” “We did not want compensation, we want the land because the land is life. The land is our heritage and it will be here forever for generations to come,” said Gladman Tom, chairperson of the Prudhoe Community Land Claim Committee. The community was represented by the LRC in Grahamstown. The court ordered that the minister of rural development and land reform restore the land to the Prudhoe community (except for one farm which was purchased by a black African farmer in 1994 from the Ciskei government) within six months of the order, and that the community’s rights be adjusted to full ownership of the farms. The community lodged their claim in December 1998 in terms of the Restitution of Land Rights Act, claiming restoration of 26 farms between the Fish and Mpekweni rivers from which they were forcefully removed by the Ciskei government during the late 1980s. The LRC said the claim was contested by the AmaZizi community, who claimed 85 farms, which include the 26 farms claimed by the Prudhoe community. However, the Land Claims Court found that the Prudhoe claimants constituted a community and had a valid claim in respect of all the farms, and dismissed the claim of the AmaZizi in respect of those farms. Tom said: “For years we have lived in poverty, living off social grants, because there are no job opportunities and we didn’t have land for the cultivation of crops and livestock production.” Tom said Prudhoe was made up of about 350 households with an average of four people per household, including children. “We are going to be hands-on for economic development for our own community. “Our vision is to form a partnerships with private companies to invest and build business and employ locals." He said they would need assistance from the government and the private sector for development.