More than 2 000 tons worth of bottle caps were collected by the Girl Guides Cape West as they attempted to “raise smiles” and break a Guinness World Record yesterday. Their record-breaking attempt took place at the Old Mutual Sports Grounds in Pinelands and was inspired by the work done by children’s medical charity Operation Smile, who help children get much-needed cleft lip or palate operations. A cost of one operation can cost R5 500 and upwards, with fund-raising referred to as “raising a smile” for children who otherwise would not have been able to afford it. Girl Guides Cape West members, volunteers and their families were separating, drilling holes and stringing bottle caps from 8am in attempts to thread over 120 000 bottle tops on 2km of string. Event organiser Tanya Prinsloo said the world record stood at 117 040 bottle caps. Their aim was to reach in excess of 120 000 and with the total number of bottle caps, to raise more than a few smiles. Prinsloo said the initiative came about last year, inspired by the Fair Cape Cares Foundation initiative to raise funds for Operation Smile. “We collect bottle caps for recycling to raise funds for charity and wanted a way to take it further. We found the record of stringing bottle caps together, and got support from our chapters from Cape Point to Heidelberg and outside the province, and shopping centres and libraries, who all donated bottle caps,” said Prinsloo. Fair Cape Dairies came on board donating treats and shading for the threaders, said Prinsloo. Old Mutual provided their sports field and weighed the bottle caps. They reached their target of 120 000 by late yesterday, but the results would still need to be verified as adjudicators would check that the caps were connected and touching. Operation Smile programme co-ordinator Adva Brivik-Prins said the organisation welcomed the fund-raiser. “This is a great initiative as it touches on so many aspects, like recycling plastic which has become an environmental headache. It also teaches young people,” said Brivik-Prins. Since 2006, Operation Smile has provided free reconstructive surgery to about 270 patients, including world care patients with more complicated facial deformities. Brivik-Prins said the hope was to raise enough to “raise one smile” but that through the initiative it would be possible to raise awareness and help more children. Anyone who wants to know more about the Girls Guide Cape West can visit www.capewestgirlguides.org.za, for Operation Smile visit www.operationsmile.org  dominic.adriaanse@inl.co.za 