A fifth person was wounded in Tuesday night’s shooting and was recovering in 
hospital. Police spokesperson Andre Traut said three unidentified suspects shot Sinethemba Gwadiso, 28, Yonela Sixiki, 13, Kamvalethu Thuthani, 12, and Sazi Velebhayi, 20, while they were sitting inside a Toyota Avanza a stone’s throw away from their homes. He said the suspects fled the scene. Siyabonga Gwadiso, 19, was in a critical condition in 
hospital. “The motive is yet to be determined and suspects are yet to be arrested,” Traut said. Nobuhle Balele, 17, cousin of Sinethemba and Siyabonga Gwadiso and Sixiki, said she and the three had been sitting in the car when she went to a shop to buy bread. On her way back, she heard gunshots and she had thought the gunmen were robbing the shop belonging to Somali nationals. When she went closer to the vehicle, she realised her cousins had been shot. Nobuhle said she heard more than 20 gunshots. Had she not gone to the shop, she would have been dead, she said. “Crime in this area has escalated. “Just the other day an old man was robbed and we always hear screams of people being robbed in the mornings,” she said. Visibly distraught, shaken and constantly crying as she relayed what she saw, she said she had yet to receive counselling. Her uncle, Lindela Dyubhele, said he was pained to lose two family members in such circumstances. Dyubhele said Sinethemba was a good man and had just started driving taxis. Sinethemba was the driver of the Toyota Avanza. “It is not even a month since he started and now this,” said Dyubele. Kamvalethu’s father, Mthandazo Ngeyi, said he heard the gunshots and moments later went to investigate. “He normally plays on that street with his friends. They shot my son,” Dyubele said. Ward councillor Fikiswa Nkunzana said the shooting was shocking. “I don’t wish for it to happen anyone. “After meeting with the families to discuss their funeral arrangements, I will raise this issue with the City of Cape Town to see what assistance could be provided to the families,” said Nkunzana. Traut urged anyone with information regarding the incident to contact Crime Stop on 08600 10111 or SMS Crime Line 32211.