Yesterday thousands of commuters were left stranded as employees in the bus industry went on strike. They have rejected the 7% increase offer from employers and are demanding 12%. The MyCiTi bus and Golden Arrow Bus Services would remain suspended until further notice. George municipality bus service GoGeorge also notified commuters of suspended services, while Greyhound and Citiliner commuters were refunded at the Cape Town bus station offices. The SA Transport and Allied Workers Union (Satawu) said the ongoing nationwide bus strike could have been prevented if the employers negotiated in good faith. Satawu spokesperson Zanele Sabela said: “We were supposed to meet yesterday to discuss and see if we could prevent the strike but they pulled out. “We ended up meeting as unions to prepare for today. “Luckily, the CCMA has come in and is willing to intervene for the public interest. “So today and tomorrow we have the meetings scheduled and (hope) that will help to solve the dispute.” Meshack Ramela, who represents the employers, disputed the union’s claim of pulling out of the meeting at the 11th hour. He said the unions did not communicate the venue for the meeting this week. “The employees’ demands are unreasonable as they amounted to a 60% increase when combined. No employer can afford this. We will meet at the CCMA today. Transport Minister Blade Nzimande urged all the parties involved to find a solution inspired by a common desire to make the bus industry a reliable, attractive and safe public transport mode. The Congress for Democratic Taxi Associations (Codeta) also called for an amicable solution. The association described the afternoon peak hours as a nightmare for commuters. Mayoral committee member for urban development and transport Brett Herron said: “This, in effect, means that there will be no MyCiTi trunk or feeder services available for as long as the strike and lock-out continues. Those commuters with monthly MyCiTi tickets must note that the monthly packages will be extended equal to the number of days the strike action lasts. “The number of days will be determined once the strike has come to an end.” Taxi commuter Nwabisa Mfuyo said: “This strike has delayed regular commuters and we had to wake up earlier than the usual time”. “Most of us are worried that our bosses might not understand if we are late. “I won’t lie, taxi drivers knew we would be frustrated so lines were moving fast.”