The wrestlers and rugby players motivated the pupils, who admired them as they took on various sport coaching 
lessons. Apollo Crews from WWE said: “Young children are the future of the world. “I grew up playing sport, sport is my life. Without sport I don’t think I would have made it through college. Sport teaches you lots of life lessons. I met a lot of my best friends through sports. “Stay motivated and don’t let anyone tell you are not going to make it. Chase your dreams. "You can achieve anything you want in life, as long as you work hard and you will make anything a reality.” Fellow wrestler Mandy Rose encouraged the pupils to report bullying, avoid negative peer pressure and improve their school marks. “No matter what you want to do, as long as you put your mind to it, you can be anything,” 
she said. Stormers hooker Bongi Mbonambi said he began playing sport because it humbled him. “Bullying is not cool, it demoralises and is the cause of violence. Children need to play sport at an early age and keep active, no matter which sport they play. Rugby helped me to be where I am today. "Drugs are a problem in South Africa, especially in Cape Town, and playing rugby kept me off the streets. If I managed to do it, they can also do it,” he said. Cedar Primary School principal Carlin Symonds said the community around the school experienced a lot of unemployment, drugs and gangsterism. “We tell the children they don’t have to go that route, and they can do something for their lives and be better persons,” said Symonds. “The more positive influence we bring to the school the better for them. They must rise above their circumstances.” Des Webster, from Active Education, which advocates for sport to be part of the school’s curriculum, said children should be encouraged to try out for field and ball sports outside the classroom. “These kinds of games encourages physical education for the young ones. They need to be taught to be active, get involved in sports in schools and their communities,” said Webster. Grade 7 pupil Fawaaz Williams, 12, said it felt good to be visited by the Stormers and the WWE wrestlers. “We are very fortunate to have them. It is great to be in class but it much greater to be out here exercising,” said Fawaaz. He said he played karate, swimming and likes biking.