A picture of the calf was taken with a cellphone camera through a pair of binoculars. Rhino monitors are required to keep their distance and don’t always have high-end cameras on hand, said WWF SA spokesperson Andrea Weiss. A black rhino mother was spotted with her young calf, just months after she and 13 other rhinos from KwaZulu-Natal were relocated late last year. WWF’s Black Rhino Range Expansion Project (BRREP) had successfully moved its 11th population of this critically endangered species to a 
new location in the north of the country to allow them to breed and bolster their 
numbers. In a mark of the project’s success over the years, some of the rhinos involved in the move were offspring from early project sites, Weiss said. BRREP has been working since 2003 to increase black rhino numbers by increasing the land available on which they can breed. This is done by moving founder populations of rhino to new areas. The first group of rhinos was moved in 2004. There are now about 200 black rhino on BRREP sites across. This represents roughly 10% of the country’s black rhino population. “Most BRREP calves are not given names but rather are called by their ear-notch numbers - and in this instance the little calf is still going by its mother’s number until it has been sexed and is old enough to be given its own unique notch number,” Weiss said. Environmental Affairs Minister Edna Molewa said in order to address wildlife trafficking, the government has diversified and expanded their capabilities to meet the 
escalating threat and as such diverted allocations from resources for other socio-economic imperatives. Speaking at the fourth Multi-Lateral Meeting of the Defence and Security Chiefs on anti-poaching, Molewa said it has been almost a decade since rhino poaching started intensifying and increasing in the sub-region. “As rhino poaching escalated, the country had to adapt and enter into a number of collaborative agreements to ensure our wildlife was protected and properly managed,” Molewa said. The cabinet approved an integrated strategic management approach for the protection and management of rhino. This approach is implemented through a joint collaboration within the security cluster comprising the ministries of defence and military veterans (chair), justice and correctional services, police, environmental affairs as well as state-owned entities, such as the State Security Agency, SA Revenue Service, National Prosecuting Authority, SANParks and the provincial conservation and security authorities, she said. Interventions have delivered a number of significantly satisfying results - most significantly, an established downward trend in the number of rhino poached since 2016, Molewa said. It is an approach that is now being utilised to curb elephant poaching in the Kruger National Park. “This approach has resulted in poachers not only being arrested, but also being successfully prosecuted and receiving harsh sentences,” she said.