Police Minister Bheki Cele has been urged to investigate alleged reports that police used live ammunition on protesting community members during a stand-off in Mahikeng. The DA believes the "use of live ammunition to disperse a protesting crowd is not acceptable and is indicative of poor training". It claims "this protest reflects the ANC’s failure to get rid of likely compromised leaders in their ranks", alluding to North West Premier Supra Mahumapelo, who is facing allegations of fraud and corruption. In a statement, the DA said: "The DA urges the Police Minister, Bheki Cele, to thoroughly investigate the extremely concerning reports of the use of live ammunition by South African Police Services (SAPS) in Mahikeng during a standoff between the police and residents following the continuous service delivery protests. " Minister Cele must immediately get to the bottom of this and establish if these reports are true and if so, on whose instruction did the police use live ammunition on the protesting community members. "This is greatly concerning if it is indeed true and it must be addressed immediately. The use of live ammunition to disperse a protesting crowd is not acceptable and is indicative of poor training, and likely inadequate provision of appropriate ammunition, i.e. under-equipping, of the SAPS members whose mandate is to keep South Africans safe. "The fact is this protest reflects the ANC’s failure to get rid of likely compromised leaders in their ranks. These protests are against Premier Supra Mahumapelo, who is facing allegations of fraud and corruption. "Residents’ rights to protest should not be trampled and we urge residents to do so within the confines of the law and to not delegitimise their cause by descending into property destruction and violence. "It is apparent that the ANC has failed Mahikeng residents by not ensuring clean governance and service delivery to our people." "The DA has consistently called for a SAPS leadership overhaul and the professionalisation and sufficient training of the police personnel to adequately fight the unacceptably high levels of crimes and ensure safety for all South Africans.