South African National Parks has confirmed that a Cape Town resident and a foreign visitor died in Monday's tragic climbing accident on Table Mountain. Regional communications manager for SANParks Merle Collins said the Capetonian was a local guide. The other victim was a female foreigner, as was the sole survivor. Their nationalities and ages were not yet known, but an investigation led by police was under way. The accident happened at about 5pm on Monday when the three climbers were spotted dangling from ropes as they abseiled down Arrow Final.  A cable car had to be used in the rescue effort, leaving 500 visitors stranded on top of the mountain.  "A helicopter was dispatched but couldn't get close enough. The cable car was stopped midway and a rescue team was sent to assess the situation and found three people abseiling down the mountainside," Collins said. "All three had fallen, but the ropes had not broken so we are not sure why yet".  She said the two victims died on impact. The survivor tried to do CPR on one of the victims, but was unable to revive him. Collins said once the survivor was rescued, operations resumed to bring stranded people down the mountain. "The last people came off the mountain after midnight at 12.30. It was below 10 degrees, ice cold," she said. Authorities tried to keep the elderly and infirm comfortable in the Table Mountain restaurant and wifi lounges, but there was not enough space for everyone.  The two bodies were retrieved by 5.15am on Tuesday. Collins warned that while Table Mountain appears deceptively easy to climb, even experienced climbers can get into difficulties. "It is a mountain, it's a wilderness area, and some people underestimate that fact. There are cliffs and edges and dangerous areas, that's why we have footpaths.  "We ask people to remain on footpaths and known areas," she said, adding: "I cannot comment on the abseiling as we don't know what happened there." SANParks mostly deals with minor rescue operations involving dehydrated walkers, injuries like broken ankles or people getting lost.  In those cases, walkers are carried off the mountain on stretchers. Last week, an elderly man was airlifted off the mountain when he lost consciousness, but has since recovered. "Wear the correct shoes, and tell someone where you are going and what time they can expect you back, so authorities can be alerted if there is a problem," Collins said. African News Agency (ANA)