Police in Cape Town have uncovered an illegal ammunition factory in Lansdowne, dealing a blow to gangsters in the city, Western Cape police said on Sunday. Crimes associated with gangs would remain a priority for the SAP in the province and the SAPS would pursue every avenue to bring perpetrators to book, Lieutenant-Colonel  Andrè Traut said. An intelligence-driven operation in Lansdowne on Saturday night led police to an address in Bombay Street, he said. "A search of the premises resulted in the discovery of an illegal make-shift factory for ammunition, which we believe is intended for the gangs in the Hanover Park area. "Large quantities of ammunition cartridges, projectiles, and gunpowder were seized, as well as apparatus to manufacture ammunition." The circumstances surrounding the seizure were still under investigation and the possibility of arrests had not been ruled out, Traut said. Western Cape police commissioner Lieutenant-General Khombinkosi Jula expressed his appreciation to the SAPS members involved in the operation and said time was running out for criminals in the province. Meanwhile, a woman has been arrested for being in possession of three illegal firearms in Lentegeur, two days after her son was arrested for a similar offence, police said on Sunday. "With our focus on violent and serious crimes in this province we are closing the net on armed criminals," Traut said. Police in Lentegeur reacted on a tip-off and searched a residence in Varing Street in Lentegeur late on Saturday night. Three illegal firearms - a 9mm pistol with a serial number, a .22 revolver reported stolen in Caledon, and a .45 pistol with no serial number - were confiscated. The suspect, a 45-year-old woman, was arrested and was expected to appear the Mitchells Plain Magistrate's Court on Monday. "Two days before, the son of the suspect was arrested in Lentegeur, also in possession of an unlicensed firearm. He too is expected to make a court appearance on Monday," Traut said. Jula warned criminals that police would "maintain our frequency of operations in crime affected areas until we are satisfied with the levels of crime". African News Agency/ANA