The popular music festival sold out its early-bird tickets within just three days of going on sale. The weekend passes were sold out this week. This year, audiences can expect to see top local and international talent, with the headline act being British artist Corinne Bailey Rae.  Rae, from Leeds in England, released her self-titled debut album in 2006, which debuted at number one in the UK (the fourth female British act in history to do so) and number four in the US. The album features global hits Put Your Records On and Like a Star. Jazz lovers can also look forward to hearing acts such as the Sekunjalo Edujazz Band, the Settlers High School Band, Jarrad Rickets, Jordan Rakei from New Zealand, Alistair Izobell, Miles Mosley from the US, The Soil, Mi Casa as well as Claire Phillips from Belhar.  Settlers High School received the surprise news last year that they will be part of the line-up in 2018. The school boasts three jazz bands that have, over the years, produced some of South Africa’s finest jazz and pop genre talents.  The Dynamix Jazz Band started afresh last year with a completely new line-up of first-time players, with Jazz on the Lawn 2017 being their debut performance. Phillips started singing as a toddler and taught herself to play guitar, piano, saxophone, drums and bass guitar. “Nowadays, Phillips leans more towards the guitar as an instrument of choice, but it is her unique voice that makes her stand out. Phillips’s first foray onto the professional stage was as a cover artist, but she quickly built up a repertoire of original, self-penned work. “She became the first female South African artist to win a South African Music Award (Sama) for a debut album when Say My Name won the best R&B/soul album category in 2007. "Her second album was released in 2012, named By Request, because of the number of people who kept on asking for her next CD,” according to her artist biography written on the CTIJF website.  The festival will take place at the Cape Town International Convention Centre on March 23 and 24 and artists will entertain the crowds on five different stages.  Book your tickets at Computicket now or online at www.computicket.com     chevon.booysen@inl.co.za 