The municipality encompasses areas including Paarl and Wellington. In a statement, the municipality said council might consider recommendations for water tariff changes. Municipality spokesperson Riana Geldenhuys said the persistent drought in parts of the Western Cape and dwindling dam levels have compelled Drakenstein Municipality to up its water restrictions to Level 6 - in line with the City of Cape Town.  “The Municipal Council adopted the move from Level 5 to Level 6 restrictions at a Special Council meeting on December 8, 2017,” she said.  Drakenstein mayor Conrad Poole said: “Our main motivation is to ensure that Drakenstein Municipality continues to manage the water resources we still have access to, to the best of our ability for our residents and businesses, and push out Day Zero as far as possible.” Until possible water tariff changes kick in, Level 4 tariffs apply for domestic water use in Drakenstein. Charges range from R4.66 for more than 6kl and up to R341.28 for 80kl and more.  With Level 6 restrictions, all Drakenstein water users are required to use under 87 litres of water per person per day in total. Residential units consuming over 10 500 litres per month will be prioritised for enforcement and water restrictors will be installed if consumers do not adhere to these measures. All boreholes and well points must be registered with the Drakenstein Municipality and display official signage (including a permit number) clearly visible.  To preserve groundwater resources, households with boreholes are discouraged from using borehole water for outdoor purposes, such as irrigation and the filling up of swimming pools.  The use of portable or any temporary play pools is prohibited when filled with potable water. In addition, non-residential properties are to reduce water consumption by 45% and agricultural users by 60%.  “Anyone who contravenes the new Level 6 water restrictions will be liable to pay a fine of up to R2 500 per contravention or imprisonment or both,” Geldenhuys said.  Drakenstein Municipality urged residents and businesses to continue to report any leaks, pipe bursts and water wastage immediately to its water services department at 021 807 4715. Anyone with information about corroborated water wastage is asked to call the municipality's reporting hotline number, 0800 428 429 or send an e-mail to drakenstein@report-it.co.za.  Should this information lead to the successful criminal prosecution of any person who committed a criminal act against Drakenstein Municipality, the whistleblower(s) stand to be rewarded between R20 000 and R200 000.