Last year, 185 rescues were performed on Table Mountain, according to Wilderness Search and Rescue (WSAR) spokesperson Johann Marais. This is 10 more incidents then the previous year. In December alone 22 rescues were performed. “The majority of people, about 70% who report incidents, are overseas tourists.They misjudge the size of the mountain.” Marais was speaking after a tour guide and an Asian woman died abseiling on the mountain. The woman’s female companion survived. Police spokesperson FC Van Wyk said the bodies of a local 61-year-old man and a 29-year-old tourist were retrieved yesterday by mountain rescue team efforts. Marais said the three climbers were spotted dangling from ropes about 150m below the cable car station just after 5pm, as they abseiled down Arrow Final. “An initial attempt to use a helicopter to rescue the climbers was unsuccessful, leading the team to decide the best way to reach the three would be to abseil from the cable car. They were only able to rescue the surviving woman who had injuries with the cable car resuming its service at around 10.15pm.” He added that the recovery operation involved 30 people and confirmed both women were from Hong Kong. Hundreds of people on top of the mountain were left stranded and had to wait hours for the cable car to bring them down. Regional communications manager for SANParks Merle Collins said it is believed the guide fell first, followed by the other two tourists. “The ropes did not snap, but an investigation is under way to determine what happened.  "The female survivor tried CPR on one of the victims, but was unable to revive him.” She said just last week an elderly man was airlifted off the mountain when he lost consciousness, but has since recovered. WSAR, which co-ordinates rescues on Table Mountain and elsewhere in the Western Cape said the three most common incidents that search and rescue teams responded to were people getting lost, injured or dehydrated. Collins said people should prepare properly if they intend hiking on the mountain. “Wear the correct shoes and tell someone where you are going and what time they can expect you back, so authorities can be alerted if there is a problem.”  Both WSAR and SANParks have urged tourists not to misjudge the size of the mountain.   okuhle.hlati@inl.co.za  Cape Argus 