The tour will mark the first visit to South Africa by a professional US orchestra. A highlight of the tour will be a piece specially commissioned as a tribute to Mandela by Classical Movements. The tribute will be written by world-acclaimed composer Bongani Ndodana-Breen, titled Harmonia Ubuntu, and it will also feature the 
soprano Goitsemang Oniccah Lehobye. The musical tribute to Mandela forms part of nearly 50 projects planned by the Nelson Mandela Foundation to commemorate his legacy. Sello Hatang, the chief executive of the foundation, said: “Madiba’s centenary is about helping build a values-based society. "Music has over the years played a key role in helping deliver democracy in South Africa. "We hope that this 
initiative will play a role in highlighting the plight of the poor and the marginalised, and thereby build a more equal society.” The piece will be performed at concerts in Minnesota in July, after which Vänskä and the orchestra will travel to South Africa to perform in Cape Town, Durban, Pretoria and Johannesburg, as well as at the historic Regina Mundi Roman Catholic Church in Soweto. Speaking about their reason for travelling to South Africa, Minnesota Orchestra president and chief executive Kevin Smith said: “Our music director Osmo Vänskä had performed with the South African National Youth Orchestra in Cape Town and Soweto in 2014, and the moving experience of that event persuaded us to tour South Africa next.” Vänskä added: “Music plays a central role in South African culture today, both choral music and a growing orchestral tradition, and we are excited to experience and be part of this movement.” The Minnesota Chorale will join the tour for performances of Beethoven’s Ninth Symphony in Johannesburg and Soweto, singing with the Gauteng Choristers and soprano Goitsemang Oniccah Lehobye, mezzo Minette du Toit-Pearce, tenor Siyabonga Maqungo and bass-baritone Njabulo Madlala. The tour will showcase music from South African, American and European musical traditions, and will draw together South African and American performers, and a mix of music, offering musical exchanges with student groups and large-scale performances in colleges, city halls and churches. Ticket prices range from R100 to R600 and bookings can be done through Computicket at www.computicket.com/music. For the Cape Town concert, contact tickets@classicalmovements.com More information can be found at minnesotaorchestra.org/satour Tour dates: Friday, August 10, 8pm, City Hall, Cape Town Sunday, August 12, 5pm, City Hall, Durban Thursday, August 16, 7.30pm, Aula Theatre, 
University of Pretoria Friday, August 17, 7pm, Regina Mundi Roman Catholic Church, Soweto Saturday, August 18, 3pm, City Hall, Johannesburg.