He was the second person in less than a week to be electrocuted while allegedly trying to cut overhead cables. Metrorail services have been suspended for nearly a month on its Central line following vandalism, cable theft and the killing of a security guard in Khayelitsha. When the parastatal attempted to restore services about two weeks ago, a train derailed due to cable theft. It is not clear when trains will resume operating on the 
Central line. “The fact that the train service is suspended does not mean the electricity is switched off as technicians work, repair and test the system. The lines must be considered live at all times. “The second tragic electrocution in two weeks proves the extreme danger of stealing electrical cables,” said Metrorail spokesperson Riana Scott. Police spokesperson Noloyiso Rwexana said an inquest had been opened after the unidentified man was electrocuted in Bishop Lavis. Metrorail manager Richard Walker said: “The overhead cables provide traction energy for trains - 11kv electricity is 50 times more powerful than domestic power. We implore media and community stakeholders to help spread the message of the danger of tampering with any electrical infrastructure.” Meanwhile, three suspected cable thieves were arrested in separate incidents after being caught with copper at the weekend. Metrorail said a tip-off led to the arrests of two suspects in Khayelitsha on Friday. A team consisting of police and Metrorail’s Protection Services  was alerted by residents about two suspects whom they believed were trying to steal copper-bearing cable between Nolungile and Nonkqubela. “Community members continued to monitor the suspects while back-up teams were dispatched and they saw the pair burning the cable. “Police arrested the duo in possession of more than 50m of cable, confiscated the equipment used to cut the cable and retrieved more than 10m of 27-core cable still smouldering in the fire,” said Scott. She said both suspects were taken to the Khayelitsha police station. Another suspect was arrested in Section Street, Paarden Eiland, burning railway cables. The cables were confiscated and a case opened at Maitland police station. Walker said: “The successes of the past week due to information received shows that good people are tired of criminals derailing their train service. We salute their courage and encourage more people to become involved.”