The EFF Student Command last week encouraged hopefuls to go to universities, as barring walk-in applications was a “systematic 
exclusion”. The party responded to a statement by Universities South Africa (USAf), which said that all 26 institutions would not allow walk-ins. At Wits University this week, security has been on standby should chaos erupt.  There were long queues for first-time students who have already been accepted and wanted to register. As Wits was not accepting late applications, students were given advice and information on the Department of Higher Education’s Central Application Clearing House (Cach). In the Western Cape, CPUT and UCT are 
focused on students who have applied timeously for 
courses. Stellenbosch University said it has space for 5 000 first-year students who were 
provisionally accepted and meet the university’s 
requirements.  UWC spokesperson Luthando Tyhalibongo said walk-ins are directed to the university help desk for 
assistance.  “Computers have been made available to assist walk-ins with the Cach online system application,” Tyhalibongo said. Stellenbosch University spokesperson Martin Viljoen said: “SU received nearly 
32 000 applications of which 
18 000 were complete.  “SU has 5 000 seats available for new first-year students, but has provisionally admitted about 10 000 first-years to allow for those matriculants who do not make admission after the matric results become available.”  “Online registration opens later this week and all students are encouraged to make use of the system. Specific times during the week of 29 January are set aside for students who cannot do self-registration.” Viljoen said Stellenbosch has “various contingency plans” in place to make sure that the welcoming and registration processes run smoothly. UCT spokesperson Nombuso Shabalala said the university had received 68 335 applications from over 35 000 undergraduate applicants.  “UCT’s admissions system requires that applications for undergraduate study are submitted by a deadline in the year prior to commencement of study.  “UCT does not accommodate ‘walk-in’ admissions given that applications received through the regular application system far exceed the number of students that the institution is able to accommodate,” Shabalala said. CPUT spokesperson Lauren Kansley added: “Walk-ins are not being processed by the institution.  “Walk-ins are being referred to the DHET Cach system.”   lonwabo.marele@inl.co.za 