But today social entrepreneur Paul Taliaard is a finalist in a competition where he gets to represent the country. The founder of Hands of Honour, a start-up non-profit organisation (NPO), is one of five finalists in the 2018 Chivas Venture competition - competing for a share of $1million (R12m) in funding. His life changed one day while queueing at a soup kitchen when he realised he could help impact others' lives. “Many of the men standing alongside me in the soup kitchen queue had skills and I wanted to do something that would give back their dignity. "Knowing that I was nominated in this competition makes me feel great and appreciated. Somebody is recognising the work that we do,” he said. Describing his NPO, Taliaard said they “collect unwanted goods from corporations, film studios, advertising firms and individuals”. “We create jobs up-cycling these unwanted goods into desirable products that are resold. These are not goods that are recycled. Instead they are up-cycled and put back into the retail chain. “This is using old items and using these items to add value to an obsolete product.” Taliaard said he is most proud of his early childhood development project, Angel Classroom on Wheels, which won an award in the Swarm Vision ‘’Future of Education’’ competition held in California during 2016; it was also a finalist in the SA Edu-Weeks Awards last year. “A space-saver, the unit unfolds to reveal a world of adventure and knowledge through the books and educational toys. "Transformed into a puppet theatre in two seconds, the unit supports all the pillars of early learning including numeracy, literacy and life skills,” he said, adding 30 young children can be kept busy learning while they play. “The best part of this is when you see the team, men who come from difficult backgrounds, delivering this project to the early childhood development centres.” The organisation, which mostly services Retreat, Lavender Hill and Steenberg, has been widely recognised as playing an active role in creating a safer community.  chevon.booysen@inl.co.za 