Eight-year-old Kwakho Mamputha will get the opportunity to show off her skills at the Junior Miss SA in April, where she will have to impress top agents, casting directors and industry professionals. The Khayelitsha Modelling School star will represent the Western Cape in the North West in three months' time. In August, she will represent the country at the 
Toddler and Tween of the World pageant.  But the only challenge standing between Kwakho and realising her dream of becoming a child star is the financial cost involved. Her self-employed mother, Brenda Mamputa, who runs a beauty hair salon in 
Khayelitsha, said Kwakho will need about R10 000 for travelling costs, accommodation, competition outfits, hair, make-up, charity contributions and competition 
registration. The deadline for the first R1 000 (which is the sponsors fee) of the R3 250 is March 30, the second deadline on May 30 and on July 7 the remaining R1 250 is due. Kwakho stands a chance of clinching the title of Face of South Africa in her age group.  Mamputa said she was very happy for her daughter to 
represent the country. “I am proud of the amount of hard work she has put in. It has paid off.  “She is a strong model and her ability has helped her realise that her dream can be possible.  “I also encourage her to do well at school and respect others the way she would also like to be respected.  “I like that she is a humble child and understands the circumstances of her home.  “Kwakho is good at what she is doing, she loves it and she is going places.  “But the challenge is that I am not working full time and don’t have the resources or money to pay the money needed by the organisers.  “Since she was very young she has always shown 
modelling signs, thus I decided to take her to modelling schools. Now and then she reminds me that the dates are nearer and asks how far I am with fund-raising.  “She is looking forward to these events and it would hurt my heart to see her disappointed,” added 
Mamputa. Anyone wishing to assist can contact Kwakho’s mom on 073 148 7626 or at 
mamputa.brenda@gmail.com