Durban - National Police Minister Fikile Mbalula pulled no punches in Durban on Friday when he instructed officers to “shoot to kill”, something violence and police experts have labelled as irresponsible. Mbalula was addressing a crowd of newly qualified and seasoned officers in Durban. His address came ahead of the national police excellence awards held on Friday night. He lamented the death of police officers in the line of duty, and urged officers to not hesitate to fight back. “We do care about you and that is why you are not alone in this battle. I shout, I say shoot to kill, but it is my job to protect you because when you shoot criminals and for some reason they come down, the law will bide for you. That is why I am saying, as a minister, I must amend the law to protect you to do the things that you want so that dangerous criminals cannot do as they wish and kill you. And that is what I mean when I say shoot to kill, no retreat. I must know that the law is on your side because you are the law, you must not hesitate, you must stamp the authority,” said Mbalula. He added that: “Between you and criminals the law must be on your side, the law must not be soft on criminals and make it easy for them, it must be soft on us to maintain law and order and be difficult for criminals. And by so saying I’m not promoting lawlessness, I am saying the law is the law and the law must bide. The criminals are having it easier on them because they know that the law will be softer on them.” To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. Criticised Mary de Haas, of KZN Violence Monitor, criticised Mbalula’s comments, and called them irresponsible. “Our police don’t need any urging to kill more people. It’s the height of irresponsibility, and coming from a minister it is not acceptable. I haven’t heard ministers call for less torture and violence. Why are we asking for more violence?” she said. The focus, said De Haas, should rather be on increasing crime intelligence. “He should tell them to jack up crime intelligence and beat corruption. That is the way to tackle criminals,” she said. UKZN Dean of the School of Applied Human Sciences and policing expert, Dr Jean Steyn, added that the calls for more violence were “a step in the wrong direction”. “South Africa has one of the most liberal democracies in the world. We should not be perpetuating violence. The police should not be empowered with violence,” he said. Steyn said there should not be a perception created that officers go out to work each day with a constant threat to their lives. “Officers are also role models in society. They need to be trained with different and alternative ways to handle situations. Officers need to have intelligence and sensitivity in handling matters,” he said. THE INDEPENDENT ON SATURDAY