The Manenberg Community Policing Forum (CPF) honoured 21 matriculants in the neighbourhood who had achieved distinction passes. The CPF’s chairperson, Kadar Jacobs, said: “Manenberg does not have a good name. When you mention Manenberg, it is all about crime. “But we are saying Manenberg has a lot of good qualities that are not being portrayed to the world. The CPF, as part of its social crime prevention strategy, elected to celebrate the success of the pupils who go through a very traumatic 
experience during their 
school days.” He said that in some instances pupils were forced to join gangs in order to be safe when attending school. “The challenges are quite big for pupils in Manenberg. So we thought we should take three pupils from each of the seven schools and celebrate the success that they have made of their lives. The CPF  thought it was important to celebrate the sacrifices that these children made during their matric year.” Manenberg police station spokesperson Ian Bennett said: “This is an amazing achievement for this area labelled as gang-ridden. This achievement not only shows and proves the amount of hope in this area, but it shows education is the tool to overthrow gangsterism - bringing it down and eradicating it completely.” The pupils were paraded through the streets of Manenberg and Heideveld on open horse-drawn carriages. “Putting young people on a pedestal showcasing achievements of hard work proves that any and every young person can succeed. Success is just not for the rich and famous, but it is for those that work hard,” said Bennett. The pupils were from all seven high schools in the Manenberg and Heideveld area serviced by the police station, including Manenberg Senior Secondary, Silverstream Senior Secondary, Phoenix and the Leadership College, among others. The convoy started at the station and ended at Phoenix High School. This initiative is the third for Manenberg. Manenberg police station acting station commander Sanele Zama said: “Manenberg SAPS is proud to be associated with a community that cares for our youth, ensuring the growth of confidence and stature through humbleness.” “This event will be remembered as great significant point in the young people’s lives.” She said the matrics of 2018 would be encouraged and inspired by the initiative, ensuring an “everlasting legacy that will change the face of Manenberg and the lives of children forever”.