“You will not want to miss seeing her on your next aquarium visit,” the aquarium said yesterday. The honeycomb stingray is a member of the Dasyatidae family, a group of cartilaginous fish known collectively as whiptail stingrays due to the venomous barbs in their tails.  It is also known as the giant short-tail stingray, the largest stingray species in the world and one that was a regular attraction at the aquarium over the years. Internationally, according to the aquarium, the honeycomb stingray is known by various names in different regions. In the US it’s called a reticulate whipray, in Australia it's known as a leopard stingray, and in Europe it's called a marbled stingray. Fully grown, a honeycomb stingray can be 6m long, 2m wide and weigh over 120kg. “As we're sure you’ve noticed, the honeycomb stingray gets its name from its intricate pattern. This pattern helps to camouflage it from sharks and other predators that may try to hunt it from above, as the stingray mostly rests on the sandy bottom of lagoons and shallow waters. “Unlike the short-tail stingray, the honeycomb has a thin, long tail - alluding to the common name of its family, 'whiptail'.  “Electrical sensors in this long tail allow it to sense approaching predators, such as dolphins and sharks, and you may see it extending its tail like an antenna inside the exhibit.  "The honeycomb is so good at detecting predators that many other species of stingray prefer to remain near it, rather than with their own species,” said the aquarium. Although it's a predator, the honeycomb stingray is only adapted to hunting bottom-dwelling animals like crabs, mantis shrimps, mussels, octopuses, upside-down jellies and small fish. The honeycomb stingray poses little threat to humans.  Like other whiptail rays, it is equipped with a venomous, serrated barb at the base of its tail which it can use to defend itself.  Only a few thousand people are injured by stingrays a year - almost all have foot injuries from accidentally stepping on one.  The very few deaths reported have all been freak accidents, and nobody has been killed by the venom itself. Humans pose a significant risk to the honeycomb stingray.  The IUCN lists the honeycomb stingray as vulnerable due to overfishing and destruction of its habitat.