Johannesburg - The ANC has dismissed that the future of President Jacob Zuma is on the agenda of its special national executive committee meeting taking place on Wednesday in East London. It has been speculated that during its first meeting since it was elected at the national conference in Johannesburg last month, the NEC members would debate whether Zuma should leave his position or continue with what is argued as two centres of power. ANC secretary-general Ace Magashule told journalists that Zuma’s future was not on the agenda. “There was only one item on the agenda and all of us collectively agreed that this is the special NEC, and the matter on the agenda is January 8 statement,” said Magashule. Magashule said other issues, that were expected to feature on the agenda such as the election of national working committee members “will come at a next proper meeting of the NEC (whose date he did not reveal).  “This one is specially to discuss January 8”. 
    To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video
   This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window.  In what might be interpreted as meaning that there was not intention to remove Zuma as the head of state, Magashule said the nation should not be worried about issues of two centre of power. “There are no two centres of power, there is only one centre, and centre is the ANC. That matter was not for any discussions and debates, as the president (of the country) and the president of the ANC are continually meeting and engaging. Therefore there was no matter to be discussed,” he said. ANC spokesperson Zizi Kodwa added: “It is not like the agenda is still to be adopted, the agenda has been adopted and there is no additional issue”. Magashule refused to answer questions about Zuma announcing the judicial commission of inquiry into state capture, saying that the matter was irrelevant to the what the ANC is gathering for in East London. He said the meeting was merely to have the draft of the January 8 Statement, which ANC president Cyril Ramaphosa would deliver on Saturday at the city’s Buffalo City Stadium in Mdantsane township. Political Bureau