Top three on the list of  achievers were Janke van Dyk, Matthys Louis Carstens and Erin Michael Solomon. Van Dyk was also the top pupil in the country. She said: “It’s unbelievable. These couple of days have been so crazy. I am trying to process the achievement.  “I knew there were different categories at national awards, but never thought I would be first in South Africa. “Hard work and dedication paid off and there was lots of support from my parents and teachers at my school.”  It also helped that she went through the papers of the 
previous year “to get used to the type of questioning”. “Apart from the academic side of things, it is also important to take part in other activities at school to make the 
balance,” she added. “I don’t know how to describe my happiness, but at that moment (of going to the stage to accept the award) I did not know what it meant.” Van Dyk plans to study chemical engineering at Stellenbosch University. Her mother, Zenobie, said: “We are so proud. We are used to her achieving high marks, but this is something else. “We are happy we are blessed with a child with so many talents.” Carstens was “excited” and said yesterday was “one of the best days in my life and it was amazing”. Solomons said this year’s matriculants should “start studying from the first day of school, so that by the time they write their final examinations they have all the resources they need”. The provincial education department also recognised individual matriculants who achieved excellent academic results under tremendous difficulties, with Benedict Khobotle and Genevieve Lee Heathcote Marks having received the MEC’s special awards. Khobotle said: “It would have helped to have social workers deployed at schools to help disadvantaged learners like me.  “The year was tough, but diligence and perseverance paid off after overcoming extreme hardship.” Awards were given to the 19 most improved high schools and technical schools, with 30 or more candidates who have shown the greatest improvement in the pass rate over the past three years. Twenty schools received awards for showing the greatest improvement in performance in various subjects. A further 20 schools were recognised for excellence in academic results based on consistency, overall passes, the percentage of candidates qualifying for university entrance for a bachelor’s degree, and the percentage of candidates withmathematics passes. Education MEC Debbie Schäfer told parents, educators and the top achievers that the province achieved the highest percentage of bachelor’s passes in the country, with 39.1%.   She said in mathematics, the province achieved the highest pass rate of 73.9%. In physical sciences, the pass rate was 73%. It placed the province in second place in the country, with the Free State topping the list. Schäfer said more learners were taking maths and science “as a percentage of the cohort, something that we have been encouraging over a number of years”.