Bra Hugh, 78, died yesterday after a long battle with prostate cancer. Tributes came pouring in from around the world as those who had been touched by his music and love for his country reflected on his legacy. To many, he was a giant of jazz - and a brave fighter for freedom during the apartheid era. Bra Hugh’s nephew, Mabuse Masekela, said: “He was someone who never let up or never let down. He always stood for Africa and its people in South Africa, on the continent and in the diaspora. “We appreciate and value all the expressions of sympathy and condolences. We appreciate the way people are remembering him.” President Jacob Zuma expressed his condolences to Masekela’s family and friends. “Mr Masekela was one of the pioneers of jazz music in South Africa whose talent was recognised and honoured internationally over many years. “He kept the torch of freedom alive globally, fighting apartheid through his music and mobilising international support for the struggle for liberation and raising awareness of the evils of apartheid,” said Zuma. In 2010, Zuma had bestowed the National Order of Ikhamanga in Gold to Masekela for his exceptional contribution to music and the struggle against apartheid in South Africa. Grammy Award-winning Beninese singer-songwriter Angelique Kidjo said she had lost a friend in Masekela. “Hugh Masekela was a pioneer,” she said. “He was one of the first musicians to spread African music all over the world. But most of all, he was a funny, generous and beautiful soul.” Archbishop Thabo Makgoba said: “Hugh Masekela’s legacy is that of an inter-generational institution, someone who across generation after generation articulated our people’s experiences and reflected our evolving history through music. His songs of migration in particular are a testimony to history as we lived it. “In that history there was laughter and there was pain, but it provided the fuel we needed to help us overcome adversity and power the struggle for human liberation.” Film producer Anant Singh said he was deeply saddened by the passing of Masekela. “Hugh was an exceptional human being and a friend. We have lost an icon. We will miss him. “My family and the Videovision Entertainment family send our love and sympathies to Barbara and the entire Masekela family.” Award-winning rapper Cassper Nyovest said: “I once got a chance to jam with him on national TV, and for the past two years I have tried to recreate this moment at Fill Up, but he wasn’t able to commit to coming to perform with me. I will cherish this moment forever, but most importantly the wisdom he shared. Rest in peace Hugh Masekela.” Arts and Culture Minister Nathi Mthethwa said the nation had lost a “one-of-a-kind” musician. “A baobab tree has fallen We can safely say Bra Hugh was one of the great architects of Afro-jazz, and he uplifted the soul of our nation through his timeless music,” he said. In April last year, the University of KwaZulu-Natal awarded Masekela the honour of a doctorate in music 
(honoris causa), in recognition of his contribution to the music industry.  lonwabo.marele@inl.co.za   nicola.daniels@inl.co.za 