The United National Transport Union (UNTU) wants the Railway Safety Regulator (RSR) and the Passenger Rail Agency of South Africa (Prasa) to be charged with "attempted murder" after more than 200 people were injured in a train crash in Germiston on Tuesday. The rear-end collision between two trains at the Geldenhuis station was the second train crash in less than a week.  Last Thursday 19 people lost their lives and many more were injured when the Shosholoza Meyl collided with a truck at a rail crossing in Kroonstad, Free State. At least 15 people remain missing.   “Enough is enough," said Steve Harris, Untu general secretary in a statement late Tuesday. He accused RSR and Prasa of acting recklessly in allowing the trains to be manually operated when signal problems occurred.  In a previous incident, Harris said similar manual operations had resulted in a crash between two Metrorail trains at the Elandsfontein station on 1 June, 2017 during which a commuter was killed. "Untu obtained a legal opinion from Wessie Wessels, a senior attorney specialising in criminal law, to confirm that there is indeed a prima facie case against the RSR and Prasa after the crash on 9 January 2018," said Harris. "According to Wessels the legal test of dolus eventualis must be applied. By allowing the trains to be manually operated, the RSR and Prasa objectively foresee the possibility that their acts might cause deaths and persist with it regardless of the consequences. Harris said the RSR and Prasa breached a prohibition directive issued by the railway safety watchdog against the passenger rail service on 2 June 2017.  On this day the RSR prohibited Prasa from operating on manual authorisation at various signals in Gauteng. He said the RSR issued the directive against Prasa, after an investigating into the crash between two Metrorail trains at the Elandsfontein station on 1 June, 2017 revealed that the two trains were authorised into a section at the same time, thus indicating poor management and unsafe execution of the manual authorisation process.   Harris said failure to comply with the directive is an offence in terms of Section 45 of Act 16 of 2002 as amended, (National Railway Safety Regulator Act) and will result in criminal charges and/or a penalty being imposed in terms of the Penalty Fee Regulations 2011 as amended. “The time has come that South Africans stand up to the maladministration of state-owned enterprises and watchdogs that is funded with tax payer’s money without adhering to any of its Constitutional obligations,” said Harris.  African News Agency (ANA)