Cape Town - UCT’s decision not to release an accounting student’s results over R2 000 is reminiscent of an “apartheid system that favours the privileged”.
The SA Students Congress (Sasco) said this yesterday in response to a mother’s cry for her child’s results to be released so she can join a firm. This as tens of thousands of prospective students flood campuses countrywide and online in search of the promise of free tertiary education. It follows the government’s decision on student fees, which will see 90% of them not paying for fees, registration, accommodation, books, food or transport. Shiehaam Diedericks has outstanding interest of R2150 on fees paid late. Her mother Raydie Diedericks’s fury drove her to the university ombudsman’s office, an approach she said proved fruitless. “This situation is absolutely stressing her out, as she is worrying about where we will get R2150 after paying the University of Cape Town (UCT) for over six years, probably R400 000 in fees.  "It does appear that UCT is clearly not as interested in their students’ well-being as they claim to be. “In 2017, she did her postgraduate diploma in accounting and passed, and obtained articles/traineeship with an accounting firm. “The university demanded that the fees be paid in full on March 3, 2017, which was impossible to do, due to the #FeesMustFall (campaign), and her writing exams in January 2017 only, and getting results later in February 2017,” Diedericks said. Yesterday morning she said that she asked UCT whether the amount could be paid off, just so her daughter could get her results and send them to the firm that will be employing her, but the answer from UCT was a firm ‘no’. UCT spokesperson Nombuso Shabalala said: “The difference of R2150 is the late payment penalty charge incurred as a result of paying the initial payment after the due date.  "For work purposes, UCT does confirm on request to potential employers that the student has qualified so that they can make job offers on that basis if other requirements are met. “If she reduces the fee debt to R999, she can be given her transcript,” said Shabalala. Sasco chairperson Anathi Khatshwa said: “We are appalled by the manner in which the institution continues to withhold student degrees due to unpaid funds, despite the countless times that students have had to stand up in mass action fighting for those that the institution always seeks to exclude. “UCT has for many years worked on an apartheid system that favours only those that are able to pay their funds.”   sandiso.phaliso@inl.co.za  Cape Times