It's all systems go say the organisers of the revamped Cape Town Street Parade, as people have camped out early to get the best spots to enjoy today’s extravaganza. The City expects about 80 000 people at today’s event, commonly known as the Tweede Nuwe Jaar Minstrel Parade, with spectators camping in the CBD since Thursday to attend the road march (nagtroepe). Mitchells Plain resident Rashieda Abrahams, 56, set up camp early yesterday morning and said she had been attending the parade since her childhood in District Six, with at least 20 family members expected to attend. Tapie Hendricks, 76, from Lentegeur, said he was a former minstrel and his grandson and son-in-law were part of a troupe. “This is part of our culture and is so important to the people of this province. I come to the parade every year because this is part of my and my family’s tradition,” he said. The Cape Minstrels or Klopse take over the streets of the Mother City each year for the annual and historic parade, which dates back to the mid-19th century when the slaves in Cape Town were given one day off in the year (January2). The Kaapse Klopse Karnival Association keenly awaited crowds joining them for the spectacle and celebrating the new year, said director Muneeb Gambeno. “The event has been well supported. The Klopse will always be part of it, but we must also include other art forms, like the Riel dancers, well-known celebrities, performers and comedians to help internationalise the event while maintaining its traditional minstrel heritage,” he said. The parade was due to start in Keizersgracht Street and move past the Grand Parade and City Hall into Darling Street, on to Adderley and into Whale Street, leading to its culmination in Rose Street, Bo Kaap, said Gambeno. Live entertainment was to include artists such as Loukmaan Adams, Austin Rose, Monox Adams, The Woodstock Darlings, Riel dancers the Tiervlei Vastrappers van Ravensmead, NovaCaine, The Marvellous Marvellos, The A2 Duo, Waseef Piekaan, and the BMX group Buddy and the Tricky Wheels. The City’s safety and security executive director, Richard Bosman, said they expected about 80 000 people to attend. “A total of 60 traffic officers will be deployed to ensure the free flow of traffic at major intersections on both days. Additionally, more than 200 metro police officers and law enforcement officers will be deployed,” he said. Various roads in the area will be closed from 6am until midnight. For more information, visit www.capetown.gov.za   dominic.adriaanse@inl.co.za 