Cape Town - The City of Cape Town's Environmental Health Department has warned residents to avoid contact with Wildevoelvlei in the Noordhoek Vally at all costs, due to elevated levels of toxins in the water. "Wildevoelvlei has a well-established algal population dominated by species of blue-green algae (Cyanophyceae). This algal group has the ability, under certain conditions, to produce toxins which can be harmful to humans and animals if ingested," the City warned in a statement. "During the warm summer months, the algal population can increase dramatically. Recent monitoring and laboratory tests undertaken by the City have confirmed that the water contains blue-green algal toxins," it said. "The public is urged to avoid all contact with the water at the vlei and in the outlet channel leading to the sea and discharging on a section of Noordhoek Beach," the City’s acting mayoral committee member for Area South Suzette Little said. "Dog-walkers should ensure that their pets remain on a leash and prevent them from drinking the water." The harvesting, sale and consumption of shellfish from the rocky outcrops near the outlet to the sea (Klein Slangkop on Noordhoek Beach) is not advised. Shellfish, such as mussels, harvested from this area are likely to be unfit for human consumption as a result of the toxins. The algal blooms can usually be seen  as green, blue-green, white or brown foam, scum or mats floating on the surface of the water. Exposure to the algae can cause eye irritation, skin rashes, mouth ulcers, vomiting, diarrhoea, and cold-or flu-like symptoms. Drinking or swallowing large amounts of contaminated water can be extremely dangerous. "Anyone who comes into direct contact with the blue-green algae should wash immediately with clean water. If any symptoms present, seek medical advice immediately," the City said. "The City will continue to monitor the water quality and keep the public informed of any developments," Little continued. "Water samples from the vlei are assessed regularly as part of the City’s Water Quality Monitoring Programme." Signage is being erected at various locations to warn the public. The warning signs will only be removed once the vlei is clear of all potential health risks. "The City is committed to the safety of residents, but we need everyone to play their part. Please don’t go to the vlei or harvest and consume shellfish from this area," Little said. The Environmental Health Office can be reached at 021 444 1653.  argusnews@inl.co.za  Cape Argus