Mgoqi Solomon, 60, from Mandalay, drowned at Maiden's Cove beach around 2pm yesterday.  Solomon was declared dead by paramedics. His daughter and grandchildren, along with police and other law enforcement members, were on the scene, according to the National Sea Rescue Institute (NSRI). Brian Geswindt, 63, from Mitchells Plain, drowned at Kalk Bay Harbour around 7.45am on the same day, after jumping into the water from the jetty.  Cape Medical Rescue were first on the scene and performed CPR, but Geswindt was declared dead at 8am. His family and police were also on the scene, the NSRI said.  “We are struggling with people bathing in non-designated areas: 11 of the 14 were in non-bathing areas,” said Mayco member for safety and security and social services JP Smith.  “The drownings are disappointing considering we brought on 100 extra lifeguards and a lot of extra law enforcement staff. “We work really hard to ensure a safe environment for visitors to our beaches and other public attractions, but it’s of little consequence if bathers venture outside the designated bathing areas or disregard the instructions of lifeguards,” said Smith.  He said non-designated bathing areas were classified this way for a reason, as they were dangerous.  “In addition to an extensive media campaign and everyone singing the same tune - SAPS, NSRI, City - we are now 
having to patrol or even man these areas.”  Since December 1, an angler has drowned near Gordon’s Bay and a diver drowned after he had a heart attack at Soetwater. Three children drowned at Mnandi Beach, while three young adults drowned in three incidents at Strand Beach.  A 17-year-old male also drowned at Melkbostrand and another young male at Muizenberg. The body of a male who drowned at Mowabisi Beach is still missing.  On Saturday, a 5-year-old boy drowned in the pool of the Beacon Island Hotel in Plettenberg Bay.  NSRI spokesperson Craig Lambinon said: “Children swimming in the pool noticed an object under water in the pool and on closer inspection they realised that a child was lying at the bottom of the pool.  "The children rescued the child to the pool's edge, where adult bystanders initiated CPR.”  Lambinon said NSRI medics and the ER trauma nurse continued CPR efforts and the boy was rushed to hospital where he was declared dead. “The children who rescued the child from underwater, and the bystanders and their parents who initiated CPR, are commended for their actions,” Lambinon said.    nicola.daniels@inl.co.za 