Western Cape Premier Helen Zille has landed in another Twitter storm, with her own party members saying a new round of tweets from her has yet again breached the DA’s social media policy. But it was Mayor Patricia de Lille who was in the line of fire of DA leader Mmusi Maimane at a media briefing on Cape Town’s water crisis yesterday. Maimane ducked and dived - and squirmed - when questioned about reports that the DA had threatened to take action against Zille, refusing to comment. But he was much more forthcoming when quizzed about De Lille. He did not hesitate to say he was unhappy with the way she had handled the water crisis. Maimane said he would not answer questions about politics at the briefing at the DA’s head office. He said he would only respond to questions about water. “It is no secret that I was not happy with the way things were handled,” he said. It was reported yesterday that the DA federal executive had sent a letter to Zille cautioning her to stop tweeting about colonialism or she would once again be charged. Federal executive chairperson James Selfe said: “I wrote to Helen to ask her to cease and desist from tweeting about matters that did not concern the government of the Western Cape. That was the essence of the agreement she had with the party. I did not tell her that she might be charged. “The chairperson of the FLC (federal legal commission) drew my attention to the fact that her tweet prima facie constituted a breach of the agreement and of our social media policy.” Zille could not resist responding to a tweet a few days ago that said: “I really fail to understand why this Western Cape Day Zero is attracting so much attention to a point where even army will come to rescue. We wake up and still live in day zero, when will government and army rescue us?” Her reply was: “It must be a relief that you weren’t burdened by the legacy of a colonial water piping system." Zille, who is also part of Maimane’s “Defeat Day Zero” team, was not present during his briefing. She instead held a closed briefing to hospitals and other facilities' CEOs at the Western Cape government offices, presenting the province’s disaster plans for health facilities. Her spokesperson, Michael Mpofu, did not respond to queries about Selfe’s letter to Zille. A leaked auditor-general report raising serious concerns about the financial governance of the City is expected to be tabled before council today. Maimane said: “The audit raises serious concerns about leadership issues. Cape Town is used to getting a clean audit. There must be accountability.” Day Zero has been moved from April 12 to April 16. Maimane announced that the City had secured 67 million litres a day, commencing early next month and that consumption had dropped in the past week from 580 million litres a day to 540 million litres. “This is great progress, but to truly Defeat Day Zero we need to aim to cut consumption to 450 million litres a day,” Maimane said. “Over the coming weeks, the City will be reducing pressure in high-use areas across the city, and will be expanding the number of areas affected apartment blocks may have water service interruption for several hours at a time.” Meanwhile, Cathy Dlamini, chairperson of Parliament’s select committee on social services, said the pointing of fingers and political point-
scoring matches around the water crisis had to stop. “We continue to call for full co-operation between the national departments of Co-operative Governance and Traditional Affairs, and Water and Sanitation, the Western Cape Department of Local Government, Environmental Affairs and Development Planning, together with the City of Cape Town in finding solutions to this crisis,” Dlamini said. Yesterday, the City said dam levels had dropped by 0.9% to 26.3%.  nicola.daniels@inl.co.za 