More than a year since Noluvo Swelindawo, 22, was shot to death after she was kidnapped from the home she shared with her girlfriend, her attacker, Sigcine Mdani, 26, was found guilty yesterday. In handing down judgment, Judge Derek Wille said Mdani’s version of events of what happened on the day Swelindawo was killed “leaves a lot to be desired”. “The versions are rejected and not reasonably true,” said Judge Wille. He said the State proved beyond reasonable doubt that Mdani was guilty of assault, housebreaking and kidnapping. On the murder, possession of an unlicensed firearm 
and illegal ammunition charges, Judge Wille said the evidence against Mdani was 
circumstantial. The State proved that Mdani, accompanied by a group of several people, kidnapped Swelindawo from her home on the night of December 3, 2016. Judge Wille said Mdani was seen stamping on Swelindawo’s head and kicking her in the face several times, two days before her body was discovered in an open field next to a footbridge in Driftsands, near Khayelitsha. Swelindawo’s older brother, Bonga, was attacked and stabbed, allegedly by Mdani, when he went to his home to enquire why he assaulted his sister. Swelindawo’s girlfriend, Nqabisa Mkatali, told the Cape Times her murder “was a crime based on hate and discrimination”. Mkatali recalled the fatal ordeal and how she hid under a bed when a group of men broke in. She said one of the men was known to Swelindawo’s family and had allegedly assaulted her the day before. Mkatali said one of the people who broke into the house was Mdani as she recognised his voice. The men allowed her to put on some clothes before dragging her out of the shack. Gender activists who have campaigned relentlessly since the trial got under way expressed happiness that the long-awaited justice finally prevailed yesterday. Judge Wille ruled that Mdani had a clear opportunity to kill Swelindawo because 
he was the last person to see her before she was abducted by him and a group of unknown men. The court has found that Mdani’s evidence was “wholly unsatisfactory”. National Prosecuting Authority spokesperson Eric Ntabazalila said he was happy with the verdict. More than 55% of lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender South Africans fear they will experience discrimination because of their sexual orientation or gender identity. Free Gender Khayelitsha founder Funeka Soldaat has called on communities to unite and prioritise hate crimes. The case has been postponed until February 12 for sentencing procedures.