You may think it is so-called exclusive schools that have expensive uniforms and you imply that this is done especially to make such schools out of the financial range of many poorer parents. Have you been to township schools and looked at their uniforms? I go regularly to primary and high schools in townships and have done so for many years, and I cannot believe how prescriptive such schools are regarding uniforms, and this adds considerably to the cost.  A local high school was having a sock inspection for the boys one morning when I arrived.   The boys had to raise the legs of their trousers, so that a teacher could see whether their socks were the regulation ones, and those with the “wrong” colour socks or mismatched ones were punished.  It was not even visible without lifting the trouser legs.   Another new township school has a black V-neck jersey, with two red stripes and an embroidered logo, when a cheaper plain black one would suffice.  A township school with pale yellow shirts for boys and girls is another that comes to mind.   Where do parents buy these items of clothing, except at a specific school shop?   Many township schools insist that pupils wear black leather school shoes and when pupils come to school in something cheaper (like black takkies) in an emergency, they are sent home.  I noticed some of the pupils at a very poor school had jersey sleeves that were completely worn away and I asked the school secretary where I could buy new ones to replace their old ones, and I was directed to a school supplier at the local taxi rank. This happens quite often.  Even the Grade R pupils wear uniforms at some township schools.  It makes me see red. I have spoken to principals about this requirement at their schools and they tell me that they must have discipline from the pupils, and the families must see that the pupils are “serious about school”. While I understand that some people think that a uniform is necessary for various reasons, I do not know why it cannot be a cheaper one for parents and a more comfortable one for pupils.  A white golf shirt, trousers or skirt in whatever colour, and maybe just a tracksuit top with the school logo.  Plain takkies would be more comfortable and could also be worn at weekends. New schools should definitely go for this more modern approach. As for ties and blazers, 
I have no idea why schools cling to these outmoded items. A particular uniform plays no part in learning and far too much attention is paid to it in this country. Exchange students who attend SA schools are amused by this practice, which is completely foreign to them. I believe the whole of Africa just loves the concept of a uniform. Why? Lesley Satchel Cape Town