“There is a breakdown in communication between the community and the City,” said the street committee’s Mario Wanza. On January 9, residents around the Manenberg bus terminus stopped contractors from proceeding, after their food garden was damaged in the construction process. This was after they had started a street committee last September and had devised plans to develop the space into a community 
market. Wanza said plans included a stage for cultural activities, stalls, a play park and a 
food garden. He said they had met the ward councillor and the manager of the local housing office to discuss these plans, but the City had not consulted them about its own developmental plans for the site. “Despite all our efforts to get the City involved, we were shocked to see contractors damage the food garden to proceed with the City’s development plans,” Wanza said. Brett Herron, Cape Town City Council’s mayoral committee (Mayco) member for transport and urban authority, said the City did consult the community before they started construction. “The subcouncil held several meetings prior to the award of the contract. “As part of the Transport and Urban Development Authority’s policy, local labourer names were requested so that they 
could be considered for employment as part of the contract. A community liaison officer was also appointed towards the end of November 2017.” Herron said Greystone Construction was appointed on November 17, 2017 to construct pavements as part of the City’s Roads and Stormwater Department’s plan to improve pedestrian safety in the vicinity of the terminus. “The contractors started working on the site on November 21, 2017, while the planting of the food garden occurred in December after the contractor had already been on site,” 
Herron said. Wanza said construction only started on the section where the garden is on January 9 and maintained that they had not been consulted about the City’s plans. “If they had a meeting with the community, why are people ignorant to their plans? People don’t know,” said Wanza. Herron said the contractors were working on a different section of the project while this matter was being resolved. The street committee is set to meet the ward councillor, community liaison officer and site agent tomorrow to find a solution.  nicola.daniels@inl.co.za 