Cape Town - The mother of a 14-year-old girl who predicted her own death - allegedly raped and murdered by her own cousin - says she has forgiven him. In an affidavit, mom Berenice Britz, 43, has also asked suspect Yagyah Robyn’s family to allow the courts to decide his fate. The 19-year old was arrested after Camron’s half-naked body was discovered on July 2 last year by her 11-year-old brother in Ocean View. On the same day, cops discovered a bunker in the bush near the body, believed to be Robyn’s secret lair. Camron went missing after she attended a community bonfire and was supposed to sleep over at a friend’s home the previous night. Prosecutors are set to prove Robyn lured Cameron to his bunker in bushes along Slangkop Street. Read: Camron Britz's murder accused cousin has a dark past Girl,14, detailed her rape and murder in poems, letters Berenice’s affidavit was sent to the Daily Voice a month before the suspected killer’s pre-trial proceedings is expected to begin at the Cape High Court. Robyn is facing charges of rape and murder and will be back in court on 9 February. He is expected to be linked to the crime via witness statements and DNA evidence after police obtained blood samples from sand in the bunker. In addition, he is also facing several child molestation (sexual assault) charges at the Wynberg Magistrate's Court, which had previously been provisionally withdrawn. These cases involve young boys and will resume next Tuesday. Berenice says she forgives Robyn but is asking his family to leave her family alone and to allow the courts to do their work. The affidavit comes in the wake of Robyn’s court appearances, which have been fuelled with tension and anger. “The family of Yagyah do not want to admit that he killed my child,” says Berenice. “If he did not do it, then he would have been on the outside already. But the forensic evidence is showing to him. “I have already forgiven him but the family do not want to accept this.” Also read: Raped and murdered teen: Accused's secret lair uncovered WATCH: Camron's mom breaks down at court as suspect opts for custody Berenice says she is battling to come to terms with Camron’s death. “His family has never asked for forgiveness,” she says. “I am praying for their son in Pollsmoor Prison. The mother is only thinking of her son and doesn’t even greet me. She sees her child, but I do not see mine. “I am very sad about what happened to my child, he raped and killed my child. It has been six month since she was taken away.” Before her death, Camron had a nightmare of being gang-raped and killed, and wrote several poems and letters about it, which have been handed in to police as evidence. Daily Voice