The driver and his passenger, who were both unidentified, died in an accident on Sunday along the R404 in George, while the pedestrian was killed on Friday on the N1 near De Doorns, he said. ER24 spokesperson Russel Meiring said paramedics, along with the Metro and Fire Services, arrived on the scene to find the truck and light motor vehicle on the side of the road. “Upon closer inspection, paramedics discovered the bodies of an elderly couple, a man and woman, lying inside the light motor vehicle.  "Unfortunately, both patients had already succumbed to their multiple injuries. Nothing could be done for them and they were declared dead. “Three other patients were later assessed. “A second elderly couple, as well as a 7-year-old girl, were assessed and found to have sustained serious to critical injuries. “The patients were treated for their injuries and were provided with advanced life interventions before they were transported by Metro Services to Mediclinic George for 
futher treatment,” Meiring said. Africa said 24 motorists were arrested for allegedly driving under the influence of alcohol.  Of these, 10 were arrested in George, four in Caledon, three in Knysna, two in Swellendam, two in Brackenfell and one each in Worcester, Laingsburg and Somerset West. In addition, traffic officers arrested seven people. Among them, three were for possessing false documents in Somerset West, Beaufort West and Oudtshoorn, and one for a speed of 157km/*  in an 100km/*  zone. Two pedestrians who had been under the influence of alcohol in Vredendal and a reckless and negligent driver in the same area were also arrested.   Breath tests were performed on 2 279 drivers at 26 alcohol blitz roadblocks across the province, with the highest breath alcohol reading recorded in the Laingsburg area.   A  total of 1 314 speeding offences were recorded and 332 fines amounting to R556 550 were issued for a variety of reasons, ranging from driver to vehicle fitness violations. Africa said the highest speeds recorded were: 172km/*  in a 120km/*  zone in the Brackenfell service area; 157km/*  in an 100km/*  zone in the N2 Swellendam area; and 107km/*  in a 80km/*  zone in the N2 Somerset West service area.