The provincial health department confirmed the birth of 79 babies as reported by public health facilities throughout the Western Cape by 3pm yesterday. The total number comprised 45 boys and 34 girls, and no multiple births were reported at any of the facilities. The first babies were born at 12.01am - both baby boys at Mowbray Maternity Hospital, with one weighing 3.420kg and measuring 53cm, while the other weighed in at 4.860kg and measured 55cm.   Mowbray Maternity Hospital had delivered the most babies: 22 in total, 13 boys and nine girls. New Somerset 
Hospital followed in second place with 10 babies: four boys and six girls. Health MEC Nomafrench Mbombo visited Tygerberg Hospital yesterday morning to welcome two babies who were born there only minutes apart. Mbombo congratulated the two moms, who gave birth after experiencing high-risk pregnancies but thankfully delivered healthy babies just after 2am yesterday. Mazipha Mbolompo excitedly welcomed her fifth baby into the world. Little Kungawo was welcomed at 2.20am at Tygerberg Hospital. Bianca Daniels gave birth to Blake at 2.28am and the little girl was doing well after birth. Mbombo encouraged the mothers to nurture their newborns, especially "during the first 1000 days of their lives, which is a crucial stage for child development”. “I would like to congratulate all our New Year's babies who are born at such a special time of the year.  "I want to wish the parents well with raising these precious bundles.  "We know the babies are born at a time when the economy is not doing so well and there is a drought, but we want the mommies to enjoy their babies despite all that,” Mbombo said. She added that parents should ensure their babies were reared in environments that were peaceful and not disruptive. “There must be lots of care and nurturing for the babies and they need to grow up in a home where they are loved.  "We congratulate all parents on the births of their bundles of joy and also a special thanks to the staff on duty during this time. We appreciate all their hard work,” Mbombo said.   chevon.booysen@inl.co.za 