The City will activate the Disaster Operations Centre (DOC) on Monday, to execute its Water Disaster Plan, which will take effect in the event of Day Zero,  deputy mayor Ian Neilson said.  “While the City is focusing all its efforts on beating back Day Zero, we do need to be prepared for a scenario where we take control of the City’s water supply in order to extend it into the winter months.  "We will shut off supply to taps when our dams reach a collective level of 13,5%,” he said. Neilson addressed the media about the preparations in the event of Day Zero, which currently stands at April 12.  “In order to avoid this, we must reduce current consumption to 450 Megalitres of total consumption a day.  "This equates to 50 litres per person per day. Many Capetonians have reduced their consumption substantially over the past few months, and we call upon all residents to join us in our savings drive,” he said.  When dam levels reach 13,5%, the City will begin to shut down  its reticulation system, except to key commercial areas and institutions such as hospitals.  “Once this happens, residents will be able to access water from collection points across the City. Each resident will be allocated 25 litres of water a day.  "There will be separate sections for pedestrian and vehicle access, as well as access for those collecting on behalf of vulnerable groups,” said Neilson.  “The City’s Disaster Risk Management Department has been consulting with the international community since early last year on how best to distribute water in a time of crisis.  "The water collection points, which have received the lion’s share of the attention over the past weeks, are only one layer of the Disaster Plan,” he said.  “Water tankers will be used to deliver water to vulnerable groups such as old age homes and care facilities.  "We are also engaging retailers and the bottled water association to ramp up their distribution networks to increase bottled water supply, so that those who do not want to use the water collection points can purchase water,” added Neilson.  He conceded that the the detail around how these water collection points will be managed captured much of the public’s attention.  “We understand the panic that has arisen as people begin to imagine what their lives will be like if they have to queue for water every day.  "This crisis will demand a whole of society approach, where we all pull together to get through this,” he said.