The city council has approved a recommendation that managing 
the water crisis in the Mother 
City be removed from her 
responsibilities. The DA’s federal executive has resolved that De Lille should be charged and investigated by the party’s federal legal commission (FLC). Among others, she will be charged with acting in a manner that has impacted negatively on the party and failing to carry out her duties to the standard required by the party and legislation. Gottschalk said all that remained were the details and the time when the DA metro caucus would remove De Lille as mayor. “The press reports make it unmistakably clear that she antagonised powerful DA leaders in the municipal caucus and nationally. The list of charges shows how determined the DA is to dismiss 
her. “De Lille’s accusation in public that the DA conspired to remove her further antagonised them and was an unwise decision of hers,” said Gottschalk. During Friday’s council meeting, it was decided that De Lille should no longer speak on the water crisis. Her deputy, Ian Neilson, has now been tasked with the responsibility of managing the water crisis as Day Zero looms large. Following the decision, De Lille said: “I was never consulted on this matter, even though it affects me. Amendments to the system of delegations must follow due process. In light of due process not being followed before these amendments were proposed to council makes them reviewable.” Yesterday, Cosatu picketed outside the Civic Centre, expressing their dissatisfaction with the City’s strategy to resolve Cape Town’s crippling water crisis. Cosatu provincial chairperson Motlatsi Tsubane handed a memorandum containing concerns and demands of the union and aligned organisations to the Mayco member for informal settlements, water and waste services, and energy Xanthea Limberg. Cosatu provincial secretary Tony Ehrenreich said: “The lack of water is going to have a devastating effect on jobs and economic stability for the City of Cape Town, and that’s going to lead to industries closing, relocating and even 
greater job losses here. “So, as workers, we’re particularly concerned about that.” Limberg, who co-signed receipt of the memorandum, said Cape Town was experiencing its worst drought in 100 years, and that it would not help to blame one 
another.  siyavuya.mzantsi@inl.co.za 