In the most recent incident on Saturday, at the Silvermine Nature Reserve, five people were airlifted from the mountain after they were stabbed and robbed along the hiking trail. Despite providing police with “full descriptions” of two suspects, police are yet to make arrests for the recent attacks. Wilderness Search and Rescue (WSAR) spokesperson Johan Marais said the victims were able to provide police with as much information as possible. “A group of nine people were hiking when they were approached by two men. The men accompanied them on their hike for about 30 minutes, when they turned on them and started attacking them,” Marais said. According to Marais, personal items of the hikers were stolen after being stabbed. “By the time the WSAR was alerted, we sent out operatives to the area and a Skymed helicopter was requested. Operatives came across two groups of hikers with injuries,” he said. Marais said of the five people injured, one of them, who also volunteers for 
the WSAR, was seriously injured. The injured were airlifted from the mountain and taken for further medical attention. Marais said police were notified of the incident and a “massive manhunt” was launched immediately. Police spokesperson Noloyiso Rwexana said they responded to the incident at 
St James Peak. “SAPS Western Cape is aware of a robbery yesterday morning involving nine hikers, which occurred in St James Peak, Kalk Bay in the Muizenberg area. All the victims sustained stab wounds and were taken to medical facilities for treatment. A case of robbery with a weapon other than a firearm has been opened for investigation,” she said. Rwexana said information given to police detailed the group being approached by the suspects. “According to information at hand, the victims were approached by two suspects, one of whom had a knife in his possession. “The circumstances regarding this incident are under investigation. No one has been arrested at this stage. “We appeal to the public not to approach the suspects as they are armed and dangerous. Should a suspect be located, the community is requested to contact their local police,” Rwexana said. Police have urged the 
public to report any suspicious activity or crime-related information to Crime Stop on 
08600 10111.  chevon.booysen@inl.co.za 