“Our matriculants have once again achieved excellent results with a 100% pass rate. Of a total of 293 of our students who wrote the Independent Examinations Board (IEB) National Senior Certificate (NSC) examinations, 45 students obtained six or more subject distinctions (more than 80%) and a further 25 achieved five subject distinctions each,” said Crawford Kempster. “The exceptional results of all our schools are made possible by the hard work, dedication and professionalism of our outstanding teachers. “Our ethos and educational practices are designed to inspire students to achieve their maximum potential in a nurturing, progressive, academic environment.  Reddam House heartily congratulates all matriculants on their excellent results and wishes them futures filled with abundant success, inspiration and personal happiness.” Crawford-Kempster added there were 40 Reddam House Western Cape rankings in the top 1% and 145 in the top 5% of all IEB candidates per subject nationally.  Of their individual schools, Constantia “maintained their incredible group average of 76.6% again this year”.  The 115 Reddam House Constantia students achieved 362 subject distinctions and 46 students attained an A-aggregate, with 28 rankings in the top 1% and 116 in the top 5% of IEB candidates per subject nationally.  “With an excellent group average of 75.8%, Reddam House Atlantic Seaboard attained the best results in its history, with 38 students achieving 126 subject distinctions, 16 attained an A-aggregate, with 12 rankings in the top 1% and 30 in the top 5% of IEB candidates per subject nationally,” said Crawford-Kempster. Luke Mackie, of Reddam House Constantia, featured on the IEB Outstanding Achievement list with a national ranking within the top 5% of all IEB pupils in six subjects or more. Jessica Cooper and Alexander Cowing of Reddam House Constantia featured on the IEB Commendable Achievement list with a national ranking within the top 5% of all IEB students in five subjects. 