Cikizwa Tiny Matole, 53, was the community's first born-and-bred optometrist.  She was an optometrist for 20 years and opened her first practice in Langa. The mother-of-one died last month after her lungs collapsed and she was laid to rest at the Langa cemetery on Saturday.  Her sister, Portia Ntsiki Magona, said: “It hurts for the family and the community. She had so many big plans. “Tiny was a superhero. When people had difficulty with their eyes they knew where to come. When the services they received elsewhere failed them, they knew where to come and she never had an unhappy client.” Magona said eyesight was Matole’s passion.  “She never did it for money. Her door was always open, even when people did not have, she would help them and say they could pay later.  “Tiny just loved helping people and was good at what she did.” Magona said Matole’s methods were “old school”.  “She never used modern instruments to test the eyes because she wanted to see the eyes for herself. She had a natural gift.” Matole attended UCT, where she had set out to become a medical doctor, but at the time she could not 
pursue medicine at the institution.  She then completed a BSc degree and went on to work in finance.  “But she was not getting promoted and she knew she deserved better.  "She then went on to study optometry at the University of Limpopo where she became qualified in 1997.”  She added that Matole had started her first practice in Langa, but had to close shop following a spate of break-ins.  She then continued her career in the medical industry, but reopened her practice about five years ago at her Langa home.  Matole was a former member of marimba band Mambondo in the late 1970s to early 1980s.  She wrote five unpublished books, including one about her close friendship with Brenda Fassie, who lived just a street away.  “My sister was straightforward and loving. She had so much love for her family and community.  “She had a great sense of humour and she was very clever. She was a genius.” Health MEC Nomafrench Mbombo said: “It's with great sadness that we bid farewell to this remarkable person who dedicated her life to improving the lives of many.  "Our deepest sympathies to her family and loved ones.  "She leaves behind a rich legacy we all can learn from and take forward on our paths.”   nicola.daniels@inl.co.za 