The much-anticipated event, now dubbed the Cape Town Street Parade, kicked off at 10am with live entertainment outside the City Hall. However, the road march set for noon started almost two hours late. Cape District Minstrel Board spokesperson Lily Ford said the delay was due to 16 teams being denied access to participate in the road march. “There was a delay due to some misunderstanding and the 16 troupes were at first told they could not participate because they did not have the proper accreditation. But that was sorted out and all troupes were eventually allowed to march,” Ford said. Supporters came out in their numbers to the event, and the City of Cape Town estimated there was an 80 000-strong crowd. The sounds of trumpets, trombones, whistles and ghoema drums reverberated through the city centre, much to the pleasure of people seated along crowded pavements. Waleed Hendricks from Athlone, a troupe member of the All Star Entertainers, said they hoped to walk away with a big prize at the end of the day. “We have been preparing for six months and we plan to rock this city today. We have been waiting all of last year for this event because it’s part of our heritage and culture and is quite a spectacle.  "We hope our supporters enjoy what we put on show for them today,” he said. Supporters from Athlone, the Norman family, said they have been attending every Tweede Nuwe Jaar parade for as long as they can remember. “We have supported the All Star Entertainers all the years and we love the event. We have been camping in Strand Street since last week.  "We asked people to save us a spot and we have been here ever since, just so we don’t miss any of the action,” they said. The Tweede Nuwe Jaar parade dates back to the mid-19th century when the slaves in Cape Town were given only one day off in the year, January 2, in return for entertaining their slave masters on New Year's Day with a minstrel parade.  The historic parade has become an event to look forward to on the Cape Town calendar. About 60 klopse groups decked in face paint, glitter and expensive troupe gear entertained the crowd until late evening, before they parted ways to further celebrate with their communities into the early hours.