Police spokesperson Sinathi Joni said an “unidentified body was discovered during clearing of the aftermath of a fire”, an inquest has been opened, and circumstances surrounding the incident were being investigated. The family of Victor Clock said they would wait for a DNA test “even though the body was found where his house was, and he is missing”. He has an 11-year-old son.  “We have reasons to believe it’s his body, but to be sure we have to wait for DNA tests results,” said Clock’s cousin, Fundiswa Zekani. “The child was saved and he was also out of danger. We don’t know what made him go back to the house." Zekani pleaded for help for Clock’s son as his school uniform and stationery were burnt in the fire. “The child has nothing left except what he was wearing."  Disaster Risk Management spokesperson Charlotte Powell said emergency sheltering has been activated at a community centre in Langa and the Mustadafin Foundation provided humanitarian relief. She said various city services were at the scene to ensure that basic services were provided to those affected.  Mzingaye Qudalele, who lost everything, said he woke up to loud screams that the settlement was on fire. He could not save his belongings. He said the deceased man was his neighbour. “He was with us when we were busy trying to extinguish the fire.  "Several minutes later we could not see him and thought he had gone to sleep with relatives. To our surprise, residents discovered a burnt body where his shack was built.  “We looked for him and asked his relatives about his whereabouts and they did not know, thus we came to the conclusion that the burnt body was his." Qudalele said it was not known what caused the fire, but another neighbour, Zukiswa Zinto, who also lost everything, said it was suspected it was started by a resident.  Zinto said the fire would not have caused as much damage if firefighters had access to the blaze.  “The firefighters could not get through to where the fire was because their vehicles could not have access. The residents were also helpless because there is only one water tap servicing this area.”