Last week Cosatu in the Western Cape slammed the appointment of Resolve Communications to develop a communications strategy for the City around the drought, the worst to hit Cape Town and its surrounds in more than 100 years. Cosatu described the appointment of the company as “morally corrupt”. The anger of the trade union revolved around the fact that Resolve Communications is owned by former Western Cape DA provincial government communications head Nick Clelland. Former DA national leader Tony Leon is also involved in the company. But the City pointed out that its advertising agency had subcontracted Resolve Communications to perform communications work around the drought. And it said due process had been followed in making the appointment. Mayoral committee member for water and waste services Xanthea Limberg said the City had undergone an open, transparent and fair tender process. She said this was an administrative process and politicians had not been involved. It has been reported that Resolve Communications will be paid close to R700 000 for a three-month contract that ends at the end of next month. DA leader Mmusi Maimane, in taking the “unprecedented step” of taking political control of the Western Cape’s local and provincial governments’ responses to the drought crisis, also said he was not “fully satisfied” with how the City has responded to the water crisis. He said communication has in some instances “fallen short.” Lauren Kent, speaking on behalf of Resolve Communications, said the company provided professional, strategic communications advice to the City’s advertising agency. She said that there was no conflict of interest during the process. Kent would not be drawn on Maimane’s comment, but instead directed questions to the City. Leon had no input in the City’s water-saving campaign despite his company Resolve Communications’ involvement and there was no conflict of interest, deputy mayor Ian Neilson told the Cape Times yesterday. Neilson added that Resolve had assisted the City in its strategy during the water crisis and their contract would end in February. “Although he owns the company, Tony is not and never was involved in the communications campaign, and we dealt with two other individuals who work for Resolve. “I myself was unhappy with the communication that came out of the City during this time and will personally ensure that this continued campaign provides the citizens correct and detailed information,” he said. The new information coming from the City, found on its website, had drastically improved, said Neilson. Earlier, in a written response, the City said Leon was not involved in the contract and Resolve offered “specific skills and vast experience in government crisis communication strategies and behaviour change - something essential for this crisis, which is completely unprecedented”. The City said its communications department was still performing 100% of the City’s operational and strategic work.