NSRI spokesperson Craig Lambinon said a rescue team including a Skymed rescue helicopter searched for the man after he went missing  about 11am.  “(Rescue services) conducted an extensive search in an area on a beach at Monwabisi that is quite a distance away from the lifeguard-protected beach area. “But no sign of the man has been found.  “Police have opened an investigation and a police dive unit will continue, assisted by lifeguards and the law enforcement personnel stationed at Monwabisi beach,” Lambinon said. In another incident, a 50-year-old man died after the boat he was on capsized at sea in Simon’s Town.  Lambinon said the man was sailing on a small boat carrying a family of six on Sunday morning just before 8am.  “A small boat carrying a family of six and a small dog capsized in the Port of St Francis harbour mouth on Sunday morning.  “The duty crew at NSRI St Francis Bay were alerted at 7:48am. “The sea rescue craft Spirit of St Francis II and NSRI rescuers and an NSRI duty doctor arrived on the scene where the small boat, Blue Dolphin, registered to Mossel Bay, was found washed up on rocks and the private boat Juwana had rescued the family grandfather, a son and granddaughter, grandson and a Yorkie dog,” Lambinon said. Extensive resuscitation attempts were unsuccessful and the man was declared deceased.  The dead man’s wife and her daughter had made it to rocks where members of the public assisted them and brought them to the harbour, Lambinon said.  Police have opened an inquest docket.  “The remaining family members were treated for shock and for cuts and bruises and they are recovering. “It appears that the small boat may have stopped in the harbour entrance where despite the calm seas a wave may have capsized the boat,” Lambinon said.  In a separate incident at Simon’s Town, also on New Year’s Eve, a dinghy ran into difficulty offshore at the Simon’s Town Harbour.  “At 9.54am NSRI Simon’s Town duty crew launched the sea rescue craft Spirit of Safmarine II after a small dinghy with one local adult male on-board got into difficulty . “On arrival of our staff at the scene, the man was rescued onto the sea rescue craft. “He was then brought to shore where he was medically assessed and treated for mild hypothermia before being released,” Lambinon said. 