The motion was moved by ACDP councillor Grant Haskin and supported by all parties. The expansion was subject to an investigation by the Public Protector and a forensic investigation initiated by former city manager Achmat Ebrahim. The probes were initiated after Steven Lukey, from SH Lukey and Associates, alleged that there were irregularities in the way the Northern Foreshore Development and expansion of the CTICC were handled. The Public Protector and the investigation by the council’s forensic department into the R700million design tender had found evidence of maladministration. Haskin said proof of dysfunctional City oversight is that Neilson, in acting on behalf of the City as its primary oversight champion, wrote an urgent email to three senior officials on July 31 asking for information about the CTICC 2 site development plan. “(He wanted to know) whether occupation certificates had been issued, whether construction had been completed according to the plans or not, etc, when in fact this vital information ought to be known and available to the political oversight at all times if the City was exercising constant and efficient oversight over the CTICC and its expansion, and especially since CTICC2 has already been open for business since September 2017. "How can the City ask if occupation certificates exist more than one year after its opening?” he asked. According to a summary report, provision of parking to media giant Naspers (which requirements may be reduced to 500 parking bays) remains a challenge as Convenco is not in a position to secure long-term parking bays for Naspers without compromising its own parking requirements. “An in-principle approval was granted for the development of a mixed-used tower block of approximately 25000m² of bulk on a portion of the CTICC2 property. "The redesign of the CTICC2, however, impacted negatively on the size of the available footprint, resulting in a lesser market value (rental) to be obtained for the property,” the report stated. Neilson agreed to allow for a forensic investigation and emphasised that it was an urgent matter. “These reports has been prevented by the former mayor from coming to this council. We have attempted to resolve many of these issues, but the former mayor was involved in these projects and she forced people to go ahead with projects,” he said. In response De Lille said: “This nonsense must now really stop. Neilson served on the board of CTICC. He was there to represent council and report back to council on matters. He does not tell that to council. But I see that it's easy to blame me for everything.” ANC council leader Xolani Sotashe said the investigation should not be limited to only officials, but Neilson himself. “They approved the R500m to the CTICC. So they must be investigated too,” he said. jason.felix@inl.co.za Cape Argus