In response to the expected increase in activities, the City said it would be ramping up deployments to beaches and other party spots. Festivities include the Tweede Nuwe Jaar road march and the Cape Malay Choir Board road march. This will include more Law Enforcement officers and emergency services, who will be on high alert. Mayco member for safety and security JP Smith said favourable weather conditions would see many flocking to the beaches and this would cause an increase in traffic. “Even after New Year’s Day the annual minstrels event also draws huge crowds. I know that there is much excitement around seeing in the New Year, as well as locals and holidaymakers enjoying the last stretch before life returns to normal. "The City’s enforcement and rescue staff will be on hand to keep revellers safe, but we also ask that people please be responsible, irrespective of where they find themselves.” He said law enforcement officers had been patrolling beaches since the start of the month and, to date, had confiscated more than 6 700 bottles of alcohol from beaches and public places, a 20% increase when compared to the same time last year. There was also an increase in the arrest of drunk drivers at various roadblocks. More than 260 people had been arrested so far, Smith said. “These increases are indicative of the level of policing that our staff have put in this festive season. My appeal to people is to not become a statistic, either for drunk driving or as a road fatality. “There have been a shocking number of deaths on our roads already this month and, in many instances, human behaviour was cited as the cause. "To our motorists, and particularly the long-distance operators, please exercise due care when transporting holidaymakers on return journeys. There has been enough heartbreak and devastation on our roads already.” Zahid Badroodien, Mayco member for community services and health, said they’d had 271 incidents of people getting into difficulty in water and two reported fatal drownings. “We are heading into a very busy period and the only way we can prevent or mitigate the risk of visitors getting into trouble in the water is through teamwork and a shared responsibility. “Please listen to the instructions of City staff, and lifeguards in particular; and please do not bring alcohol to our facilities or drink before you swim,” Badroodien said. The City also issued a list of designated fireworks sites for New Year’s Eve and they include: Athlone Stadium parking area, Blue Downs sports field, Strandfontein Pavilion, Tourism Centre, Table View beachfront and Macassar Beach parking area.