Cape Town – A doctoral study at Stellenbosch University has found a cheaper drug could help against diabetic eye disease. Diabetic eye disease (diabetic retinopathy) is one of the leading causes of blindness globally and treatment can be quite expensive, especially in low and middle-income countries, including South Africa. But, now, there’s hope for people with this condition. The study at Stellenbosch University (SU) found that a relatively cheap drug called bevacizumab may just provide the relief they need. J Fernando Arevalo, chairperson of the Department of Ophthalmology at the Bayview Medical Center in the Wilmer Eye Institute at the Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine in Baltimore in America, said: “We found that injecting bevacizumab into the eyes could help treat diabetic eye disease and prevent blindness in people living in low and middle-income countries.” Arevalo said the rapid increase in the prevalence of diabetes means that by 2 040 more people will be at risk of developing diabetic eye disease and therefore less expensive ways need to be found to treat the condition. Diabetic eye disease affects both people with type 1 and type 2 diabetes and leads to a loss of vision caused primarily because of the build-up of fluid in the retina and the abnormal growth of blood vessels in the eye. Arevalo said the aim of the research was to determine if injections with bevacizumab, sold under the brand name Avastin, is helpful in the management of complications of diabetic eye disease in low and middle-income countries. He said people in many high-income countries are already benefiting from bevacizumab injections and other more expensive drugs. “Injections with bevacizumab, which has minimal side-effects, are effective against the build-up of fluid in the part of the retina crucial for sharp, detailed vision and the abnormal growth of blood vessels in the eye. “The study of 1 265 patients who received 4 303 eye injections of 1.25mg or 2.5mg of bevacizumab has shown that this procedure appears to be safe. Nowadays, only the lower dose of 1.25mg is recommended,” Arevalo said.