“I can't put into words the overwhelming gratitude I feel today. "South Africa, I could feel your love and support on the Miss Universe stage and I am so thankful for you. I am so proud to be South African. To Catriona Gray, (I say) may your reign as #Miss Universe be abundantly blessed.” The 24-year-old Green, from Paarl, represented South Africa against contestants from 93 countries in the competition, in which Miss Philippines Catriona Gray won. “The Miss Universe experience has been beyond my wildest expectations and I am delighted to have done so well. Congratulations to Catriona. The contestants were wonderful - some I think will be lifelong friends. It has been a true journey of the sisterhood. “Thailand is a fantastic country with friendly people who have made us all feel so welcome. We worked hard, but what we have received in return is priceless. The support I got really spurred me on. Thank you everyone back home.” Group PR manager for Sun International Claudia Henkel said: “We are incredibly proud of Tamaryn and how she has shone on the world stage. She has worked really hard during her reign and in the preparations for Miss Universe and she deserved her top three placement. “We look forward to welcoming her home where her Miss South Africa journey continues.” The show was screened yesterday in South Africa. Comedian Steve Harvey and plus-size supermodel Ashley Graham hosted the show, while TV personality Carson Kressley and runway coach Lu Sierra provided commentary and analysis throughout the event. When Green won the Miss South Africa title in May, she was a final-year UCT medical student with her sights set on specialising in paediatrics. She continued to promote her #BreakTheStigma at Miss Universe, which has been hugely successful at raising awareness around TB. Green also travelled to New York in September to speak at the first-ever UN General Assembly high-level meeting on TB and was invited to speak at the Union Conference on Lung Disease at The Hague, where she told her story and her battle with TB.