Cape Town – The driver who allegedly killed a child and her nanny in a hit-and-run incident on Strandfontein Road two months ago has been busted with drugs worth R8.9 million. The Hawks nabbed Mogamat Rafiek Hayners, 24, at a storage facility in Somerset West last week after he and his suspected syndicate were allegedly found in possession of drugs, including tik, heroin and mandrax. Hayners was arrested for culpable homicide in September. Prosecutors are set to prove that Hayners, driving a white VW Golf, jumped a red robot at the intersection of Strandfontein Road and 5th Avenue, and struck Shaylynn Arendse, six, and her nanny Maureen Abrahams, 67, while they stood on the pavement. The child, from Strandfontein, and her nanny, from Lotus River, were on their way to the Pick * Pay when tragedy struck on Thursday, 27 September. Hayners handed himself over to police the Monday after the incident, and the vehicle was found abandoned at the home of a family member in Hanover Park. He was released on bail of R5 000 and is expected back at the Wynberg Magistrate's Court on December 12. Last week, the Hawks’ Narcotics Enforcement Bureau (Saneb) said they made another breakthrough in the drug smuggling syndicate when they arrested three more people Russel Stanton Jonathan, 53, Mark Overmeyer, 51, and 45-year-old Zaynisa Alfoz in three separate busts. Hawks spokesman, Captain Philani Nkwalase, confirms: “Two weeks ago a Hawks and Crime Intelligence operation led to the arrest of Mogamat Rafiek Hayners, 24, and the recovery of various drugs ranging from heroin, tik and mandrax valued at more than R8.9 million, allegedly concealed at a storage facility in Somerset West earlier this month. “Jonathan was arrested on Monday at his residence in Hanover Park for his alleged involvement, while Alfoz was apprehended last week Tuesday. “Overmeyer was traced and arrested last week Wednesday with the assistance of the Western Cape Anti-Gang Unit. “All three suspects have already appeared at the Somerset West Magistrates’ Court.” The four have been remanded in custody and their bail hearing is currently underway. Shaylynn’s ouma, Brenda Tommy, says they are relieved that Hayners is finally behind bars. “His arrest was a revelation and we feel so relieved,” she says. “I believe there is a higher power (at work) and we just want to thank everyone for their support given to the parents and to all the family.” The family has formed a support group on Facebook, called Friends of Shaylynn Arendse & Maureen Abrahams.