The event, which is expected to draw crowds of between 60 000 and 100 000 people, was previously known as the Tweede Nuwe Jaar Minstrel Parade. Minstrel troupes from across Cape Town will perform in the streets between Keizersgracht Street in District Six and Rose Street in the Bo-Kaap, building on the long tradition and legacy of Tweede Nuwe Jaar, which has been celebrated in the Cape for over 110 years. For the second year, a special Tweede Nuwe Jaar theme song has been produced for the celebrations. This year, the song titled It’s a Cape Town Thing!, Dis 'n Kaapse Ding!, is sung by local performer Shadley Schroeder. The director of the Kaapse Klopse Karnival Association, Muneeb Gambeno, said last year saw the best celebrations in many years. “This year we will build on that success and look forward to a spectacular community event that is the biggest cultural event in Africa. "We are encouraged by the large number of troupes that have already registered for 2019, and we expect at least 50 troupes to participate on the day.” Mayco member for Safety and Security, and Social Services JP Smith said the City was proud to be one of the sponsors of the celebrations. “This is a key cultural event for all the residents of Cape Town, and the well-organised event that we saw last year made great strides in developing this into an iconic event that rivals some of the greatest street parades in the world. “The event draws a diversity of cultures from across the city. "It is recognised globally as being synonymous with Cape Town, alongside Table Mountain.” MEC for Cultural Affairs and Sport Anroux Marais said: “Central to our efforts at the Department of Cultural Affairs and Sport is creating an enabling environment in which all who call the Western Cape home feel a sense of identity, belonging and unity.” Gambeno said they had made significant improvements in arrangements for next year, adding that the event would be making full use of the Grand Parade, and the procession would loop its way onto the Parade in order to create a festival atmosphere and allow more people access to watching it. Entertainment starts from noon with an opening ceremony on the Grand Parade at around 1pm and celebrations will continue up until 10pm. There will be limited golden circle tickets going on sale just before Christmas for R100, which will give the best view of the minstrels. Follow the Cape Town Street Parade on social media for news of the release date of these tickets.