Built by the Department of Transport and Public Works last year, Vredekloof Primary School is expected to open its doors and start operating in January. This is according to department spokesperson Byron la Hoe, who said its buildings comprised a framed concrete structure with a mix of face-brick and painted infill walls. Its teaching facilities comprised 28 standard classrooms, four GradeR classrooms, three specialised classrooms, two multi-purpose classrooms and a science laboratory. The school has a hall, administrative building and sports field. Construction of the school incorporated “water-wise” features that include installation of borehole facilities, a tank farm, water-wise sanitary fittings and a water restrictor on the water main line. La Hoe said the project had made use of labour-intensive methods, which provided a limited number of short-term work opportunities and skills training for local people. He added that R4m had been spent on employing local labour. In welcoming construction of the school, DA Ward Councillor in the area Marianne Niewoudt said: “Brackenfell has developed tremendously over the past 12 to 15 years and is a very young community. The need for another primary school is very big, and I hope every teacher and pupil is going to be very happy and excel. “We say thank you to the Vredekloof community who are already involved with the school.” Wimpie Bezuidenhout was appointed the new principal and was introduced at a school handing over ceremony last week. Interim school steering committee and school governing body chairperson Leon Brynard said the school was a good asset for the community. “But something we are concerned about is the case of traffic. “All spheres of government ignore the community’s concern over the overflow of traffic and the impact that comes with development.” He said they were convinced that under new principal Bezuidenhout’s leadership and management the school would grow into a top school in the province and the country.