DA Western Cape leader Bonginkosi Madikizela said the proposal was “absolutely incoherent and madness, to a large degree". “It is a mad idea. If we believe in the constitution then we will see that public representatives are elected. "Education is really important, but if we are going to go ahead with such a move, it would be very narrow-minded,” Madikizela said. The row over politicians’ qualifications came into the spotlight when it emerged that DA chief whip John Steenhuisen may not be eligible for the position after next year’s elections if the proposal to the Independent Commission for the Remuneration of Public Office Bearers is considered. The storm on social media, largely driven by the EFF, saw return shots from Steenhuisen and other senior DA figures. Madikizela said such a proposal would not be entertained in the Western Cape. “Tertiary education is not a prerequisite for those in the DA. Some people have mastered certain areas of expertise, but that does not make you an expert. In fact, you do get experts in certain fields, but then they have the wrong attitudes towards governance. Or they can’t even speak in public meetings or deal with people,” he said. Madikizela said the proposal had been misinterpreted. “My engagement with the KZN leadership was clear that this proposal was not aimed at John (Steenhuisen). We would be creating an elitist party if we continue with this,” he said. The furore over qualifications has also placed the spotlight on the level of education in other parties and whether there are similar prerequisites. EFF provincial chairperson Melikhaya Xego said all provincial structures of the party emulate that of their national leadership, who all have masters and doctoral degrees. “We don’t have specific admission requirements, but we encourage all our members to study further. Those who are serving in governments are specifically encouraged to study further, especially in the public service sector,” he said. ACDP provincial leader Ferlon Christians said they have no prerequisites, but a scoring system helps candidates to serve in governments. “If you have a matric certificate, you get points. If you have a diploma, degree or higher qualification, you get scored higher. But that is by no means a yardstick to measure your quality in leadership and community activism,” he said. ANC provincial secretary Faiez Jacobs said ANC councillors were encouraged to study. “Many of our councillors and members come from previously disadvantaged backgrounds. We encourage them to study further and use opportunities available to them,” he said. jason.felix@inl.co.za Cape Argus