These personalised boxes were generously donated by WoF staff members, management, partners and kind-hearted individuals like the staff at the Woolworths Adderley store in Cape Town. WoF is an Expanded Public Works Programme aimed at providing work opportunities to young men and women. Participants are recruited from marginalised communities and trained in fire awareness and education, fire prevention and fire suppression skills. They are also trained in skills such as first aid, carpentry, cooking, health and safety and communications. The Woolworths Adderley store's Corporate Social Investment committee decided to adopt the #WOFCare Package initiative and donate 72 Christmas boxes, as well as arranging a small handover Christmas party. These “gifts of hope” aim to provide for essential personal care basics and educational toys and bring some much-needed financial relief. WoF managing director Trevor Abrahams said this was one way to honour firefighters who make enormous sacrifices every year in saving lives and property. “These children's moms and dads - the WoF firefighters and HAT members - work long and dangerous hours, fighting unwanted wildfires. "They often sacrifice time with their families to go save lives, properties and the environment in remote areas, late into the night.” Namhla Mapha Tshane, a firefighter from the Hottentots Holland Team, smiled and said a big “thank you” as her four-year old daughter, Amila, received her gift. “I enjoy seeing the children so happy. We are very grateful for this opportunity.” This #WOFCare package initiative was inspired by the celebration of the centenary of Nelson Mandela. It aims to emulate Mandela’s legacy about caring for children. Abrahams said the care packages were a welcome gesture at this time of year. “It is adding great joy to the lives of firefighters and their children, of whom many rarely receive gifts or get the opportunity to participate in celebrations like these. "Through this initiative, WoF is living out its value of making a difference. "We would, however, not have been able to have done it were it not for people believing in this dream and helping us realise it. Thank you to everyone, like the staff at Woolworths Adderley store, who helped make this initiative such a success.” Woolworths store manager Nicky February added: “At Woolworths we aim to make a difference and to help make every moment memorable. "Staff members selected a WoF kid from a list and personally filled and beautifully wrapped the boxes and then raised extra funds from among themselves for the party.”