According a study done by mobile app company Truecaller, South Africa was the only country on the list that saw a rise of spam calls. The data was collected from incoming calls that were either marked as spam by users - or automatically flagged by Truecaller between January and October 20 this year. “Almost half, 49%, of all top spam calls in South Africa is scam-related like tech support fraud, where someone pretends to call from your bank or a company saying that your account has been hijacked and need your help to take control of it. "The one ring scam, an unknown number, usually an international number, gives you a missed call and when you call them back you get charged a hefty fee for calling that number. "Also the job offer scam, someone pretends to be a headhunter calling you to offer you a job but you need to pay a fee in order to get the job.” The study said telemarketing accounted for 38% of all top spam calls in the country. These type of calls were usually from various companies and insurance agencies trying to offer something. The South African Banking Risk Information Centre (Sabric) highlighted that spam calls trying to access users' account information were rife during the festive season. Sabric chief executive Kalyani Pillay said digital platforms have also created social engineering opportunities for criminals to manipulate their victims into divulging their personal or confidential information. “Criminals are masters at social engineering and know just how to exploit human vulnerabilities to perpetuate crimes.” Pillay said Sabric urged consumers not to click on links or icons in unsolicited emails or SMSes. “Sabric has also seen an increase in the hacking of social media profiles, where a victim’s social media account is hijacked by hacking their account, or by creating a duplicate account using stolen personal information. "The criminal then accesses the victim's contacts and posing as the victim, fabricates a tragic story, and sends a message to their contacts requesting money,” Pillay said.