The animal, which has since been named “Lucky”, was handed to the Khayelitsha-based clinic just over a month ago. Head veterinarian Dr Friedl le Roux believed Lucky had been hit on the head or dropped from a height. The nameless kitten at the time, had seizures every 20 minutes and could barely stand up. When he did, he would walk in circles unable to control the tremors in his body. He would fall over and over again, said the clinic. Le Roux felt that his chances of survival were slim. “Each patient at Mdzananda gets individual treatment and care, but this little kitten needed around the clock care and monitoring,” said the clinic’s fund-raising and communications manager, Marcelle du Plessis. Stefanie Bergmann, a dedicated volunteer asked to take the kitten home and monitor him, said: “Dr Friedl told me that he would need around the clock attention and I jumped at the opportunity. “Mdzananda’s theatre and hospital was full and, being a volunteer, I wanted to help. I took him home and had Dr Friedl on call for emergencies. I was given strict instructions. I was ready for the challenge,” she said. The seizures stopped on day four and, on day five, he was able to walk in straight lines. It was at this point that Le Roux realised that the trauma must have damaged his visual centre as he was almost totally blind. “Unlike humans, animals luckily cope quite well with sudden blindness. He adapted quickly and day by day became stronger and stronger,” said Friedl. The kitten was renamed Lucky as he was lucky to have survived. “If it was not for Dr Friedl and the Mdzananda Animal Clinic, I don’t know what would have happened to this poor little creature. I am grateful that I was there to offer my assistance,” said Bergmann. This festive season, the clinic has asked the public to assist it to help more animals like Lucky. Donations can be made to Mdzananda Animal Clinic, Standard Bank, account: 075 595 710, branch code 025009, reference: FestiveSeason and your name. For details, contact info@mdzananda.co.za, call 021 367 6001 or visit www.mdzananda.co.za Cape Times