This was according to Western Cape High Court Judge Babalwa Mantame, who sentenced Saunders, 41, to two consecutive life terms for the rape and premeditated murder of the 3-year-old. Scenes of tears and jubilation played out on the doorstep of the high court when the child’s family, residents and supporters welcomed the punishment. The National Prosecuting Authority said it hoped the sentence would send out a strong message as they continue to make progress in cases of this nature. “The accused sought to extend an apology to the deceased’s family through an undated letter. On enquiry to counsel on when the accused wrote this letter, it was responded that he wrote it on the week preceding the week of the argument on sentence. "This appears to be a stratagem in mitigation of sentence without him taking a witness stand and voicing out his remorse to the family. "This court could only infer that this letter of apology is nothing other than an afterthought whose purpose is to do damage control,” said Judge Mantame. “The deceased’s family are still suffering from distress as a result of this incident. According to (social worker Evelyn) Torode, the deceased’s family remained hesitant to express their grief. "This court would, however, support the suggestions by the social worker that the support services and group therapy should be pursued to facilitate the healing process,” she said. To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. Courtney went missing on May 4 last year from her Pluto Street home in Salberau, Elsies River. She was left in the care of her 6-year-old brother during the same time that Saunders was on leave from his call centre job. Saunders, a childhood friend of Courtney’s father, Aaron, rented a room in the Pieters’ home for about three years. Courtney’s lifeless body was found atop a rubbish heap a few kilometres away from her home after an intense nine-day search. Saunders, a father of three, admitted to poisoning Courtney with ant poison and thereafter performing a sexual act on her corpse by penetrating her with his fingers. Saunders force-fed Courtney the poison in liquid form and when she tried to call for help, he “closed her mouth with a towel and choked her”. He had murdered Courtney due to “compounded ill-feelings” towards her mother, Juanita. Outside court, an emotional Juanita said she welcomed the sentence but this “would never bring Courtney back”. “I am very happy with the sentence that he got. It might not bring back my child but I am pleased,” Juanita said. Aaron said he didn’t have anything to say to Saunders. “I just want to ask him why. Why he did it to my child. He hurt our family very much, but after today our healing can start. We are happy for the support we have received during this time and want to thank the community for walking this path with us,” he said. NPA spokesperson Eric Ntabazalila said they welcomed the sentence just a day after the 16 Days of Activism for No Violence Against Women and Children Campaign concluded. “We are especially happy that the sentence will run consecutively.”