The bus was set alight in Woodstock on Monday night. The City said the suspect was waiting at the Lawley stop in Roodebloem Road in Woodstock when he boarded the bus around 9.45pm. Once inside, he sprayed the cabin with petrol and jumped out, according to mayoral committee member for Transport And Urban Development Felicity Purchase. She said a second suspect then ignited the bus. The passenger managed to escape through one of the windows, while the driver escaped through the door. Police have launched an investigation following what the City described as a “horrific incident”. “The City was informed of the incident along Route 102 (Salt River, Walmer Estate, Civic Centre) late on Monday. One of the attackers posed as a passenger. “In all, five MyCiTi buses have been burnt out in petrol bomb attacks since October 15 and another four buses have been damaged in foiled attempts. “The losses amount to approximately R22 million. All of these cases are being investigated by the SAPS. We keep monitoring the service and the City’s law enforcement services conduct patrols as far as possible,” Purchase said. At the end of last month, a man was arrested for setting a MyCiTi bus alight at the Crassula bus stop along Koeberg Road in Milnerton. The attack happened as some MyCiTi bus employees embarked on an illegal strike demanding to be insourced by the City and to get equal pay. The strike has been marred by violence and intimidation. Earlier on Monday, Kidrogen Pty Ltd, one of the vehicle-operating companies that provide MyCiTi with bus drivers, announced that they would increase protection for all MyCiTi employees, buses, facilities and customers through a company initiative, Project Khusela MyCiTi Operations. This aims to promote the safety and well-being of MyCiTi customers and ensure the continuity of the MyCiTi operation. The initiative is already under way but will kick off fully in the New Year. Anyone with information about the incident can anonymously contact Crime Stop at 086 001 0111 or SMS Crime Line on 32211.