Cape Town - December 5 marks two important events in South Africa: the birthday of Robert Mangaliso Sobukwe, the founding president of the PAC, and the anniversary of the death of former president and ANC leader Nelson Mandela. Both of these leaders also spent many years on Robben Island. It was therefore fitting that to mark Mandela's centenary year, the Robben Island Museum welcomed guests to a night vigil on the Island to pay homage to Sobukwe, Mandela and his "twin" Albertina Sisulu and other activists who contributed to the demise of the apartheid system. A full programme kept the visitors - most of them at least - awake all night, with highlights including a visit to Sobukwe's complex and, of course, Mandela's prison cell but there were many more very special moments that humanised a space created to dehumanise. There was none of the hushed silences associated with museums, rather there was riel dancing outside Sobukwe's living quarters, contemporary dancing in the exercise yard of Section B, singing, poetry and fantastic storytelling. (Honourable mentions go to former prisoner Mr Bandile Joyi, Reverend Michael Weeder and Luvuyo Ndzuzo, of the Robben Island Museum Education Department, who brought the stories to life). As Ndzuzo said Robben Island was the biggest mistake of the apartheid regime. They took some of the best minds of the struggle and put them in one place. The narrative told on Robben Island is not only one of hardship and imprisonment but also of intelligence, determination, organisation and kindness among the prisoners. WATCH: The Bitterfontein Riel Dancers To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. Inside Robert Mangaliso Sobukwe's living quarters, where he lived in solitary confinement.     Inside #robertsobukwe house on @robben_island It is the PAC leader's birthday today. He lived an isolated life on the island opposite the dog kennels. The four beds were for his children who slept in separate quarters when they were allowed to visit, which wasnt often #nightvigil #mandelacentenary A post shared by  IOL News (@iolnews) on Dec 5, 2018 at 10:49am PST Reverend Michael Weeder, keynote speaker at the night vigil, speaks about the importance of the event. To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window.     #amandla sings the leader of this #marimba band from #khayelitsha #nightvigil @robben_island #robbenisland #mandelacentenary A post shared by  IOL News (@iolnews) on Dec 5, 2018 at 11:56am PST     Candles lit for the fallen #nightvigil #mandelacentenary @robben_island #nelsonmandela A post shared by  IOL News (@iolnews) on Dec 5, 2018 at 7:20pm PST