Cape Town – Two brazen thieves who targeted the Metro Police Department facility in Philippi have been arrested after a member of the public blew the whistle on them. The duo, aged 19 and 29, were among 97 suspects arrested between the Metro Police and Traffic departments in the last week, the City said in a statement on Monday. "On Wednesday, 5 December, officers were informed that the suspects were seen scaling the wall of the facility in Philippi. The officers reacted and, based on a description provided by the whistle-blower, spotted the suspects along Rochester Road. "The duo, aged 19 and 29, were found in possession of four metal poles and a trolley. They were arrested on charges of trespassing and possession of stolen property," the City said. Three more suspects – aged 23, 27 and 40 –were arrested for possession of City of Cape Town property in Goodwood on Sunday when they were found in possession of nearly 400 blue refuse bags. "While the theft of some metal poles and the illegal sale of refuse bags may seem innocuous enough, these incidents are symptomatic of a far bigger problem that sees the City of Cape Town lose millions of rand every year. "We appeal to the public to think twice about roadside purchases as they could unwittingly be feeding the economy of crime. If you spot anything that appears to be illegal, rather report it so that our staff may investigate,’ said the City’s Mayoral Committee Member for Safety and Security; and Social Services, JP Smith. At Cape Town Stadium on Sunday, where the Sevens tournament was taking place, Metro Police officers conducting crime prevention patrols arrested a 47-year-old suspected drug dealer who was found in possession of 42 packets of dagga. Elsewhere, Metro Police officers arrested 32 suspects on a range of charges, including drunk driving, possession of dangerous weapons and possession of drugs. Cape Town Traffic Services made 58 arrests and issued 2 659 fines for various offences. Some of the key operational highlights included: – 28 arrests by the Drink Driving Awareness Unit at a number of roadblocks – 23 for driving under the influence, two for reckless and negligent driving and three for outstanding warrants – 14 drunk driving arrests and one reckless and negligent driving arrest during a drag racing operation in Athlone/Manenberg/Ottery on Friday. – 11 arrests during a drag racing operation in Bellville/Eerste River on Sunday. "We have repeated the same warnings over and over, but it appears that there is just no getting through to some people, who insist on drinking and driving, and behaving badly on the roads. "If that is the attitude, then I’m afraid they’ll just have to deal with the consequences," said Smith.