The Department of Environmental Affairs (DEA) yesterday launched Antarctic Season and announced the planned establishment of the Antarctic Centre. The DEA’s Antarctic Strategy and the launch of Antarctic Season, jointly hosted by the DEA and Transnet National Ports Authority, also marked the departure of the SA Agulhas II for its annual Antarctic relief voyage and the start of the annual South African-Norwegian seminar and exhibition, which ends on Friday. The Antarctic Season occurs between November and March annually in Gateway to Antarctic nations and cities. In South Africa, the season commences with the departure of SA Agulhas II during the first week of December. Since 2016, the DEA has held seminars with the Norwegian Polar Institute over two days during this period. This year the programme has been extended to five-days, signalling the strategic importance of South Africa as an Antarctic Gateway. As part of the launch, hosted at the Port of Cape Town, stakeholder exhibits were open to the public, schools and guests, with information sessions hosted by South Africa and Norway, as well as public heritage presentations and the send-off of the SA Agulhas II. Speaking at the launch, DEA director-general Nosipho Ngcaba explained features and benefits of the Antarctic Centre. “The centre will accommodate the Antarctic Logistics Network, which will be a virtual network of members that provide advice, assistance and referrals as businesses that understand polar conditions. “This will provide a point of contact for all Antarctica-related business enquiries, offering clients effortless connections to private businesses, educational institutions, research bodies and government agencies,” she said. The centre will also serve to enhance geopolitical alliances and as a base for countries that relate to South Africa as a geographic entity for reasons linked to travel to Antarctica and the Southern Ocean Islands. These countries include Germany, Norway, Russia, Belgium, Japan, UK, India, Sweden, the Netherlands and Finland. Port manager Mpumi Dweba-Kwetana said the port welcomed the opportunity to house the new Antarctic Centre, as it fitted the mandate of Operation Phakisa. Launched in 2014, the programme aims to unlock the economic potential of the country’s oceans in order to create economic growth and job opportunities through fast-tracked development. “The Port of Cape Town is pleased to work with the DEA in hosting the launch of Antarctic Season and the SA-Norwegian seminar, particularly because the exhibition element of the event is open to the public. “Through educational exhibitions like this, young South Africans will be exposed to the vast array of maritime careers on offer,” Dweba-Kwetana said.