Cape Town – The quick and proactive response by Mitchells Plain Community Policing Forum (CPF) chairperson  Lucinda Evans has led to the recovery of a cellphone of a paramedic, attacked and robbed while attending to a patient in Seawinds near Muizenberg at the weekend. Emergency Management Services (EMS) spokesperson Robert Daniels said the child the paramedics were responding to had already died. When the paramedics were returning to their vehicle to retrieve a death certificate, one was assaulted and punched in the face and the other robbed. The area was declared a red zone, meaning paramedics would not enter without a police escort. Daniels said yesterday the red zone status was lifted after police and CPF members confirmed the area was safe. Evans said she got the phone at the same place where the incident happened and thanked everyone who came forward with information. “Let’s take the lives of those protecting our community very seriously. We need ambulances back in our area. I will do anything to ensure this. "I want other communities to do the same. The healing for the affected crew will take longer than the 12 hours it took me to find the phone. Let’s protect our ambulance crews, please,” she said. Police spokesperson Noloyiso Rwexana said detectives were following all leads. The incident came a week after a Cape Peninsula University of Technology (CPUT) EMS Safety Symposium where Evans suggested satellite points where residents can meet paramedics and escort them into so-called red zones to prevent attacks on paramedics. Health MEC Nomafrench Mbombo said: “A simple act such as being visible from the front door of your own home while EMS personnel tend to your neighbour is already a step in the right direction as criminals fear being positively identified. "The community can simply keep an eye over an emergency vehicle parked outside the patient’s home while the crew is tending to the patient inside.” Mbombo said they have made significant progress in terms of keeping the attacks down, and have seen a decrease of just under 50% in reported attacks for the previous financial year. “The great partnership between the departments of Health and Community Safety and the SAPS has yielded positive results, with a criminal handed a 12-year jail term after a robbery involving EMS personnel and resources."