Yesterday marked the opening of Energy Week South Africa’s International Gas Co-operation Summit where influential energy decision-makers from across southern Africa converged. The event is a platform to explore South Africa’s aspirations to build an energy hub for gas co-operation with international partners along the gas value chain. It aims to put the objectives of South Africa and the region at the forefront of international gas development, and showcase gas procurement and utilisation strategies. The meeting, which concludes today, is co-located with the Southern Africa Renewable Energy Summit and the Black Industrialists Energy Summit. Members of environmental movement 350Africa.org and partner organisations challenged the Development Bank of South Africa (DBSA) to distance itself, and funding, from the Thabametsi coal plant project near Lephalale in Limpopo. The 350Africa.org movement said plans for the Thabametsi plant and for new coal development in South Africa were not consistent with the need to limit global temperature increase to below 1.5°C, as confirmed by the latest Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change report. Ahmed Mokgopo, 350Africa.org divestment campaigner, said: “The DBSA has already recognised the opportunity for clean energy which holds true to just and sustainable development. "However, their inconsistency in funding renewables and fossil fuels at the same time, overshadows what could see them as leaders in promoting clean energy development for the continent.” During Energy Week South Africa, the movement encouraged the DBSA to commit to 100% renewable energy financing. “This presents an opportunity for the bank to truly live up to its mandate and align all of its energy lending with South Africa’s commitments to reduce greenhouse gases in accordance with the Paris Climate Agreement currently being discussed at COP24 in Poland,” Mokgopo said. The DBSA has an opportunity to not take the Thabametsi project into consideration, and by doing so, make a clean break from coal, he added. Organisers did not respond to requests for comment by the time of publishing.