Cape Town – A deaf grandfather from Delft is traumatised after bogus cops accused him of committing a crime before stealing his pension money. The 61-year-old from Voorbrug is so scared the thieves will come back that he has not reported the matter to police, and refuses to be identified. He says on 15 October he went to Delft Mall to withdraw his pension and shortly after putting the R1 000 in his wallet, he was approached by a man who showed him money on the floor. “As he came next to me, he said ‘here is money’ and picked it up,” the pensioner explains. “It was a bank bag full of cash and he told me to go outside so we can share the money. I went with him and we walked out of the mall. “It was a black man, but he spoke Afrikaans very well. He made me walk towards the bridge on the R300 highway and we sat there on the railings.” The elderly man says he got a fright when a white car with three “cops” pulled up and demanded they get in the car. “They drove to Wesbank and told me they saw us on the cameras picking up the money. I told him I have my own money and the officer asked to see it, then he took it and put it in an envelope. “They made me so scared and they took my bank card and told me to give them the PIN. I don’t know why I did it, I was so scared, and they told me they were going to take me to the police station, but they just dropped me on the road.” His wife, Katrina Hendricks, 58, says when her husband returned home, he was shaking as he told her the story. “They gave him an envelope and told him his money was inside, but it was cut up newspapers. “I told him to report it to the police, but he was too scared,” the angry woman says. I am not scared and went to the mall and looked at the cameras and you could see the man was watching him at the ATM. “He is still traumatised by this and afterwards they even drew the last R700 from his account in Blue Downs, but we stopped the card after that.” Earlier this month at the same mall, a Delft grandmother, Elizabeth van der Horst, was left penniless when she was conned by bogus cops who stole her grant money.