The #TotalShutdownCampaign hosted their first day of a two-day celebration last night and will continue today when residents will get together and celebrate their communities, and in turn take a stand against violence and crime in the affected neighbourhoods. Spokesperson Henriette Abrahams, who serves on the Bonteheuwel Jasmine and Juniper Street Committee, said the initiative was spurred on by committees who have “decided to take back our streets from criminals”. “During the festive season, especially these two days, we experience a heightened level of violence and domestic violence. We have committed to take back our spaces from the criminals who have victimised our communities for far too long. “We are taking back our recreational spaces by hosting fun days for the entire family and bringing our neighbours closer to each other through this celebration. "We want our children to experience spaces where they can feel safe in their communities again and we want our residents to take pride in their community,” Abrahams said. Abrahams said festivities started at 6pm and were expected to run until 3am when all residents, “except gangsters”, can look forward to soccer league games, nagtroep marches, as well as focusing on local talent. “We have about eight nagtroepe that will march through the Bonteheuwel community at night. In recent years, this was nearly impossible because of safety risks that existed if they came into areas that experience violence and crime. “This will now change as we show gangsters and criminals that our children will understand our heritage, and we will bring back that tradition of old - of being able to enjoy this without being held hostage or being afraid to move around due to gangsterism, violence and crime. "Our recreational spaces are for us to enjoy but this can’t be done because they are virtually no-go zones due to criminals taking over these spaces but we are committed to having that changed,” she said. Abrahams said they would appreciate donations such as watermelon, sweet melon and cool drinks and people could contact her on 076 378 3842.