The 37-year-old was stabbed twice in her chest while at her pavement business, where she sold braai meat. When Manxele’s husband, Mlandeli Ntsolo, 38, came to her rescue, the man allegedly stabbed him too. The incident, on December 1, came as the country observed 16 Days of Activism for no violence against women and children. Speaking to the Cape Times yesterday, Ntsolo said he was called to the scene in Matyoks informal settlement, where he found his wife, who had been stabbed twice. “I jumped at him and we fought. He stabbed me in the head, using the same fork he used to stab my wife. That was the fork my wife used at her braai stand. I rushed back home to look for my knife, but I could not find it. I came back and threw stones at him,” he said. He said Manxele was stabbed after the man refused to pay for a piece of meat he had taken from the stand. “She died trying to provide for her family. She was the sole breadwinner,” he said. Ntsolo said their children were aged eight months, one and 17. “My children have been robbed of their mother. I am still very upset about what this man did and I hope he stays in jail for a very long time. The investigating officer has informed me that he will appear in court in January. I am not sure if I will be able to face him,” said Ntsolo. Police spokesperson FC Van Wyk said the circumstances leading to a stabbing incident in Drostdy Street, Swellendam at about 8.45pm were under investigation. “According to reports, Swellendam police responded to a call from the local hospital. On arrival, the members were informed about the female who was brought to the hospital, but she was dead on arrival. The victim had sustained two stab wounds on the left side of her chest.” Van Wyk said a murder case was registered for investigation.  Resident and community leader Monica Bokoto said the incident had left many in shock. “The scourge of violence against women in this area is shocking. “Men treat women like animals. In April, I lost my pregnant daughter (Asemhle), who was also stabbed to death by a man. As women, we are not safe. Men do as they please. When Noluthando asked why this man was not paying, he responded by saying he had a right to eat,” she said. Claudia Roodt, a trauma and wellness therapist said men needed to ask themselves what precautions they had to take each day to protect themselves against violence, the way women had to. “From the moment a woman wakes up she has to take precautions. Does she have her pepper spray? Has she locked her handbag in her boot? Has she locked her car doors? I want men to ask themselves whether they have to take these precautions 365 days a year, like women are forced to. “We need to look at the cultural practices and norms we use to socialise boys and girls into, whether it is media, peer culture or gender practices. You cannot lay it at the feet of parents alone; the whole of society needs to take responsibility for violence against women.”  Additional reporting by Terry van der Walt Cape Times