The race winner for the ladies was Fortunate Chidzive with Leanda du Bryn coming in second and Pamella Moykiwa placing third. For the men it was Anthony Timoteus who took the win, while Vuyolethu Mbukuze came in second and Rowhaldo Ratz third. The popular race was in its 19th year and shared the milestone with celebrations of the 60th anniversary of Cape Town's oldest township. Participant Anne Williams, 62, from Parkwood said the race was one of her favourites. “The race was fantastic, it is always the best. This is where we come together and share our love for running.” Williams completed her 10km in one hour. She said her highlight was the sounds of traditional singers along the route, as it “kept her going”. RCS has been the race sponsor for 15 years. Regan Adams, RCS chief executive said: “RCS is proud to be associated with this community. We want to dispel the myths and stigma around the township that it is unsafe. "It is an amazing place and (we) want people from all walks of life to experience it. I didn't run this year, but I attended to take in the atmosphere. "We had a very good turnout, the weather was perfect and the vibe was energetic and vibrant. Gugulethu is 60 years old and it's clear people are celebrating the spirit of community. "But this is not only a celebration, it is eye-opening because we see people are still living in the township in living conditions they shouldn't be living in. We want to see these conditions improve.” Gugulethu Athletics Club chairperson Aubrey Shoko said: “I am very happy with the way everything went. "I want to thank all our sponsors and everyone who came out to support for making this day so special. “It was very stressful, but everything came together in the end. The turn-out was good, we saw more clubs participating so we are excited and hope we will continue to see success. "The vibe was one of family and fun, as children and community members joined in cheering on the runners, smiling and enjoying the entertainment on offer.” Ward councillor Luvuyo Zondani said the participants represented the unity and diversity that exists in South Africa. “The event as usual draws out numbers, we are very happy to see all the faces representing the unity and diversity in our country. "We are celebrating our 60-year anniversary and we are proud to have everyone fun-running for health.”