Cape Town – The descendants of former farmworkers of the Longlands farm were forcibly removed from a Stellenbosch council meeting after holding a silent protest in the chambers. Residents of dilapidated farm dwellings situated directly next door to the luxury, million-rand Longlands country estate in Vlottenburg were protesting against yet another delay in homes promised by a developer and owner of the estate. Vlottenburg Housing Committee member Hendrik Brink said the silent protest on Friday was because another developer put his own interests ahead of the poor community on land that was already theirs. “The previous owner, Francois Smith, used us to get the Western Cape High Court to grant his development, by promising 106 houses. "This new owner, Werner Roux, met with us and the mayor and promised we would be in temporary housing last December. We are entering yet another Christmas in crumbling houses,” he said. Brink said the reason for the delay was because Roux had applied to the municipality for middle-cost housing, before constructing their low-cost housing, and was denied. The Longlands community last year protested following news that Smith had sold the property, after several attempts by the community, supported by farmworkers’ rights group Women on Farms (WOF), to have him transfer the land to the municipality. The Stellenbosch Municipality had informed the community that the new owner was now prepared to build the houses and it would make every effort to assist him to do so. WOF co-director Carmen Louw said: “The owner’s application went against the negotiations of last year, and now we understand he has appealed the municipality's decision. "The reason the development did not occur was because the infrastructure was not sufficient for both low- and middle-cost developments.” Roux said the application was for both developments to run concurrently, but was only partially approved by the municipality. “We are currently appealing this decision as we need to service both developments, and then, once completed, transfer the low-cost development to the municipality. "The community was asked to be accommodated at another site during construction, but declined for fear of losing their tenure rights. The decision was then taken to develop on a section-by-section basis and allow them to move into their homes,” he said. Roux said the municipality would announce its decision on his appeal by the latest tomorrow. Stellenbosch Municipality spokesperson Stuart Grobbelaar said: “Members of the public are encouraged to attend council meetings, but cannot interfere with the business of council or prohibit councillors from doing their job. "Law enforcement officers removed protesters from the chambers. Council was adjourned, allowing the executive mayor and the speaker time to explain to the community that the process had been delayed due to the appeal lodged by the developer.” Grobbelaar said the appeals authority met last Friday and a decision was made, which would be released during the coming days.