Cape Town – Friends and family of Jolandi le Roux, who fell to her death at Chapman's Peak, have expressed their shock and offered their condolences on social media. Jolandi had been celebrating her 31st birthday with her family at 5pm on Sunday when tragedy struck. While authorities have not released information on what led to the accident, there was reportedly clear signage at that spot warning visitors not to climb over the rails. Jolandi and Andrew le Roux, known for their sense of adventure and love of nature and hiking, had been married for just over a year, Netwerk24 reported. Jolandi worked at online clothing site Superbalist. Her brother, Jacques de Villiers, said on Facebook: "Death leaves a heartache no one can heal. Love leaves a memory no one can steal." One woman commented: "And what a life she lived... Baie ander bestaan net – sy het voluit geleef. Gebede omvou julle in hierdie tyd. Dit bly onwerklik!!! (Many others just exist – she lived life to the full. Prayers wrap themselves around you in this time. It remains unreal!!!) Someone else said: "I'm extremely sorry for your loss. She was an unbelievable woman, loved by many." Other posts on Facebook said: "Rest in peace Jolandi le Roux, you always had a smile, no matter what"; Äbsolutley terrible, heartbreaking news. Such a beautiful lady on the inside and outside. And the perfect couple." The NSRI was alerted on Sunday "following eyewitness reports of a woman who had fallen from the cliff", said spokesperson Craig Lambinon at the time. The Western Cape's emergency medical services ambulance and rescue squads responded, along with the SAPS and Wilderness Search and Rescue team. "On arrival on the scene, it was found that a woman from Sea Point had slipped and fallen over the edge at Lookout Point. "Rescuers were deployed to the scene on a cliff face below Lookout Point by the Skymed rescue helicopter, by NSRI sea rescue craft, and WSAR and EMS (emergency medical services) technicians deployed in a high-angle rescue operation. "Sadly, the woman succumbed to injuries sustained in the fall. Her body was recovered and taken into the care of forensic pathology services," Lambinon said. Entilini Operations general manager Mark Jacobs, which oversees Chapman's Peak Drive, told News24: "It is unfortunate and sad that with the start of the festive season this had to happen on Chapman's Peak Drive. "However, at the same time incidents like these will highlight the need for all (visitors) to be extra careful wherever they travel and, most importantly, to take note (of) signage placed in dangerous areas and (to) obey the rules at all times." Western Cape police spokesperson FC van Wyk confirmed an inquest docket was opened.