Cape Town - Hundreds of people from across the country gathered at the Cape Town Artscape Theatre Centre on Friday night to witness the inaugural Imagine Awards which were held to recognise role players in social change. The awards recognise individuals, organisations and institutions involved in initiatives aimed at making a social impact in various sectors. Representatives from civil society organisations, national and local government officials and members of the public attended the event. The Survé Philanthropies, the private foundation which houses several of the Survé family’s philanthropic initiatives, announced the launch of the Imagine Awards earlier this month. To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video Nearly 100 nominations were received from across the country. Of these, 33 individuals and organisations made it to the shortlist in various categories, including arts and culture; disability; technology; human rights; media; education; women; children and poverty alleviation. To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video Twelve special awards were conferred on individuals who made a contribution to social justice. The recipients of the Imagine Awards will be assisted with funding towards their respective initiatives. To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video Among the winner were: * Catherina Rieper, the Chief Operating officer for Lalela, an organisation which provides educational arts for at-risk youth. * The BlaqPearl Foundation which was established to support young people, through programmes using arts, literature and sport to break the cycle of drug abuse, teenage pregnancy and gangsterism so prevalent on the Cape Flats. * Kwakho Mamputa, who at the age of 8, volunteers her time to collect donations for a soup kitchen in Khayelitsha and is an inspiration to many young children in her community. * Jabaar Mohamed, a champion for deaf awareness and is advocating for sign language to be acknowledged as an official language. * Mdebuka Mthwazi, the executive director of Sikhula Sonke Early Childhood Development which provides services to more than 7 communities in Khayelitsha. To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video A number of special recognition awards were conferred on, among others: * Johnny Issel (posthumous) - A trade unionist, grassroots activist and MK commander who dedicated his life to the selfless service of others. African News Agency and IOL