Cape Town – Alleged wife killer Rob Packham has been taken into custody after allegedly breaching his bail conditions for the second time. The former beverage company manager, who is due to go on trial in February, was released under strict conditions in September following an inquiry that found he had breached his bail conditions by contacting his former mistress, who is a State witness. Eric Ntabazalila, the provincial spokesperson for the prosecution, told TimesLive on Wednesday: "I can confirm that we will ask the court to withdraw his bail, as he has breached his bail conditions, and for him to be kept in prison." The accused was initially granted R50 000 bail, with conditions, after he was arrested earlier this year. But his bail was increased by R25 000 with more stringent conditions after he was rearrested. As part of his revised bail conditions, he was allowed to visit a shopping centre in Wynberg once a week for three hours; visit a medical practitioner in Wynberg for emergencies; visit his psychologist in Rondebosch once a week; travel to his lawyers to prepare for his case; and attend church service every Sunday. He also has to inform his investigating officer from his landline whenever he leaves home and returns, as well as report to the Diep River police station every day. Police spokesperson Sergeant Noloyiso Rwexana said on Wednesday: "Please be advised that a 57-year-old man was arrested this morning on a warrant of arrest and he is expected to appear in the (Western) Cape High Court on Tuesday." Packham allegedly killed his wife Gill, put her body in the boot of her car and set it alight at Diep River railway station in February. According to the State, Packham was bust by licence-plate recognition cameras that showed him driving Gill’s BMW, while cellphone towers showed he drove around Constantia on the day of her disappearance. Gill’s charred body was found in the boot of the car after firefighters extinguished the flames. A post-mortem showed she died as a result of blunt-force trauma to the head. The alarm was raised when she did not arrive for work at Springfield Convent, a high school in Wynberg, where she was a secretary.