This is the result of yet another attack on two paramedics leading to their being declared a red zone. This means that EMS crews will require a police escort before entering the area. Other red zone areas include Browns Farm Philippi, Tafelsig, Beacon Valley, Hyden Park, Nyanga, Gugulethu, New Crossroads, Manenberg, Hanover Park, Bonteheuwel, and Langa Northern, among others. The two paramedics were attending to a call for a minor needing medical assistance when they were attacked and robbed. Western Cape Health spokesperson Mark van der Heever said one of the paramedics was assaulted and punched in the face while the other was robbed of his belongings. “The two members have since opened a case with Muizenberg SAPS. From the department’s side, we’ll be offering them counselling and supporting them through this traumatic experience. “When a life-threatening incident happens in an area, it is declared a red zone, meaning a crew cannot enter without a police escort. “It is sad that innocent people might be affected due to the time of responding,” he said. Police spokesperson FC van Wyk said a case of common assault and robbery had been registered. He said no serious injuries were sustained by the crew. The incident comes a week after a Cape Peninsula University of Technology (CPUT) EMS Safety Symposium where EMS heads, academics, government representatives and community representatives met to discuss possible solutions to the state of affairs, with firefighters and especially paramedics increasingly becoming the target of criminals. At the EMS Safety Symposium, the Western Cape Health Department reported that in the period between January and October this year, there had been 56 attacks on EMS personnel in the province. Part of the interventions implemented by the department were training neighbourhood watch and Community Policing Forum members to be first responders. Anyone with information about the incident at the weekend can anonymously contact Crime Stop on 086 000 1011 or SMS Crime Line on 32211.