General manager Derick Meyer announced this week that fares will increase by 9.5%. On July 2, the company also increased fares by 5%. “The contract between Golden Arrow and the Western Cape provincial Department of Transport and Public Works makes provision for adjustments to bus fares to offset the effect of increased operational expenses. "Golden Arrow Bus Services will therefore regrettably be increasing its passenger fares by an average of 9.5% as of December 31, 2018,” Meyer said. According to Meyer, the adjustment was primarily necessitated by “relentless fuel price increases, which despite the recent respite, have nonetheless increased by approximately 34% in the last 18 months”. “The company has implemented rigorous cost absorption measures and continues to focus on improved efficiencies, but total operational costs have still increased significantly. “In addition to the rocketing cost of fuel, nationally determined wages increased by 9%, and these two cost items make up approximately 74% of Golden Arrow’s total costs. “A fares adjustment is therefore unavoidable.” Passengers can postpone paying the increased fares until January 13 in the case of 10-ride Gold Card packages (which are valid for 14 days) bought on December 30, and until February 5 in the case of monthly Gold Card packages (valid for 37 days) bought on the same date. “Golden Arrow continues to strive to provide the highest-quality service possible to its passengers and despite the increase, bus travel remains a viable public transport alternative to travelling by private vehicle.” Commuters expressed their disapproval of the price hike on the service’s social media, highlighting issues of safety and security on buses in light of alleged recent robberies on buses. “Hope you are doing something with regards to the safety of us passengers too It is very easy for you just to increase your prices, but never forget it works both ways Take care of our safety then you will still have our support,” an online comment read. The new fares can be obtained from the Transport Information Centre at 0800 656 463.