David Bannister, identified as a manager in the criminal enterprise next to the leading figure Michael Norman, was among 14 people arrested on charges of racketeering and money laundering. The accused were charged with more than 340 charges, which included the violation of the Marine Living Resources Act (MLRA), with seven of the accused entering into plea agreements. A confiscation order was made in terms of the Prevention of Organised Crime Act (Poca) for Norman, Bannister and co-accused Rasheed Baderoen, to pay about R5million in regard to proceeds from their illegal activities. The State withdrew the charges against three accused, Stephanie Norman (spouse of Norman), Quenten Wilson and Daniel Pienaar. Bannister pleaded guilty to the charges of managing and participating in a criminal enterprise, operating a fish processing establishment without a right or permit and multiple money laundering counts. “On or about 2006, I entered into a partnership with Michael Norman, with the intention to illegally dive, store, dry and sell abalone with the express intention of making money. “We had various people working for us at the time. Myself and Mr Norman played a leading role in managing the enterprise,” he said. Bannister outlined how for a number of years he “knowingly” and “unlawfully” formed associations with other divers in order to harvest and sell abalone. The Hawks conducted an investigation into the syndicate between 2003 and 2013. Bannister explained how they moved their storage and drying facilities in order to not be detected by law enforcement agencies and also operated from different premises, simultaneously. “At some stage I wanted to use the money I made from the enterprise in a manner that was legal. I took legal advice from my attorney Anthony Broadway (that) if I formed a trust, it would be legally protected,” “Subsequently, two trusts were formed, the trustees of both these trusts were myself, Mr Norman and Mr Broadway,” said Bannister. The trust was used as a vehicle to purchase assets with money received by selling abalone, he added. Bannister said his involvement ended when the activities moved to Gauteng in 2010 and admitted to guilt of illegal activities, totalling 36 counts. He was sentenced to three years imprisonment on the first and second count, 10 years direct imprisonment, suspended for five years unless convicted of contravening the MRLA, and five years, suspended for five years if not convicted on money laundering charges. Baderoen was sentenced to three years imprisonment for contravening Poca and 10 years direct imprisonment, suspended for five years unless convicted of contravening the MRLA. The Department of Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries spokesperson Khaye Nkwanyana said the department welcomed the sentences.