Ameer Armien said he received a call from “the actual policeman who processed” his case. “He advised that my car had been recovered and awaited me at the impound in Green Point also advising that it was under investigation due to the fact that an illegal firearm was found on one of the guys caught driving my vehicle. He then claimed that I had two options. “One was to allow the investigation to run its normal course, which could take up to nine months owing to the firearm claim etc, during which my vehicle would ‘possibly be stripped for parts inside the impound and no action would be taken as these things usually happen with no possible leads or answers’, or two: I pay R1 500 to get my vehicle’s release forms processed today.” Armien said he realised when it was too late that the call was not legitimate and he had already made the payment. Leonie Mullins said a similar thing happened to her and her husband after their bakkie was stolen in Paarden Eiland. “My husband was at work and noticed when he came out for lunch that the bakkie was gone, we reported it to the police in Maitland and we were so excited when we got a call, two weeks later, that our vehicle was retrieved in Port Elizabeth. “My husband was ready to pay the R1 500, but I stopped him because it did not feel right.” She said they attempted to contact their investigating officer, but was told he was off for the weekend. “The caller called about three times saying the money was for a flat bed to deliver the bakkie to Cape Town. When we got hold of the detective that Monday, we told him about it and he was very nonchalant and not comforting and said we must not worry about that call. He didn’t seem shocked.” Mullins said they reported their vehicle missing last November and it still had not been retrieved. Police spokesperson Noloyiso Rwexana said: “This office advises all people who received calls from people claiming to be SAPS members following up on their cases about their vehicles to immediately approach their respective police stations to meet the investigating officers face to face.”