“An intelligence-driven operation at a wholesale dealer in Athlone yesterday (Saturday) led to the arrest of four Malawian men for an attempted robbery. "Police reacted on a tip-off that an employee of a Gatesville wholesaler collaborated with three men to perpetrate a robbery at the business upon closing,” said police spokesperson Andre Traut. The three accomplices of the employee were hiding in a toilet when they were surprised and arrested by Athlone police, said Traut. Two replica firearms and cable ties were found in their possession. The employee of the business was also arrested and the four are due to make a court appearance in Athlone today. Their arrest came a day after police were embroiled in a shootout with six brazen suspects allegedly behind an armed robbery at a business in Milnerton at the weekend. They were arrested following a high-speed chase. Three suspects were wounded. Traut said the suspects were caught as a result of swift action and investigation. “On Friday morning at around 8.50am members attached to the Western Cape K9 unit reacted to a complaint of armed suspects robbing a business on the corners of Koeberg Road and Madeira Street in Tygerhof, Milnerton. ‘‘On their arrival, the members spotted the suspects fleeing the scene in two vehicles, a Toyota Prado and a Toyota Corolla. "During an exchange of gunfire between the four suspects in the Corolla and the police, three suspects were wounded,” Traut said. For suspects aged between 25 and 35 were arrested shortly after, while their accomplices in the Prado managed to evade arrest, Traut added. Four firearms including three 9mm pistols and a .38 revolver were recovered, together with stolen cash and cigarettes. “A search of the area led to the arrest of a fifth suspect, who fled on foot shortly after the incident. ‘‘He was found hiding in the garden of a residence close to the crime scene. “Further investigations resulted in the arrest of a sixth suspect yesterday at his residence in the Milnerton area,” Traut said. The suspects will appear in the Cape Town Magistrate’s Court today. Western Cape police commissioner Khombinkosi Jula commended his officers for their vigilance and quick response, saying: “The freedom of the other suspects who are still at large is only temporary.”