The Longlands development includes social housing for the descendants of the former Longlands farmworkers and 70 gap houses. It was partially approved by the Stellenbosch Municipality with certain conditions on June 27. The developer launched an appeal against some of these conditions. Stellenbosch Municipality spokesperson Stuart Grobbelaar said the owner has not transferred the land to the municipality and this has delayed the process of delivering new housing opportunities. “The appeal submitted by the landowner referred to the infrastructure capacity and agreement with the municipality, as well as additional residential rights and a private open space stand. “The Appeal Authority considered all information available and partially upheld the appeal. “The Longlands housing project is a high priority for the municipality and we are confident that the outcome of this appeal will speed up the process.” The previous owner had promised the community R2 million for the construction of 106 low-cost houses. Verner Roux took over the property and reached a new agreement with the municipality for the social housing and transfer of the land to the municipality. “The development and zoning has been approved, but because the infrastructure is not sufficient, we have to apply to the City of Cape Town for a new connection to the Blackheath Water Treatment Plant to provide the needed water. “Tomorrow (today), we are meeting with the municipality and we will engage on the matter again with the municipality,” he added. Last month, former farmworkers of the Longlands farm were forcibly removed from a Stellenbosch council meeting when they held a silent protest in the chambers over the delays to the project. Farmworkers’ rights group Women on Farms co-director Carmen Louw said: “The mix housing development was not approved, as there is not sufficient water for both amounts of housing. “Our fear is history would repeat itself, as with the previous owner who promised to build the luxury estates and then the social housing, but never did.”