Among these is a well-loved, favourite line-up of Kirstenbosch Summer Sunset Concerts, which include Kirstenbosch Carols on December 13, 14, 15, and 16. Boney M, featuring Liz Mitchell, is selling out their December 23 concert fast with their hits that dominated the European charts, such as Daddy Cool, Ma Baker, Belfast, Rivers of Babylon, Brown Girl in the Ring, Rasputin and Mary’s Boy Child. Nederburg is hosting an outdoor screening of the romantic comedy film The Holiday on the lawn in front of its historic manor house at the farm in Paarl on Saturday, December 22. Doors open at 5pm and the movie screening starts at 8.30pm. A standard ticket cost R89 (entry only), and go up to R175 for CIP, which includes entry, a blanket, a backrest, reserved seating, a Frey chocolate, a Coke and popcorn. For families wanting to visit beaches, the City said it has deployed additional staff including more than 300 lifeguards who will be on duty at beaches and swimming pools; shark spotters at eight beaches; and specialised law enforcement and Fire and Rescue Service dive crews with watercraft to assist in the event of sea rescues. For those who want to get away from the Mother City for a while, iSimangaliso World Heritage Site in KZN is boasting new facilities. This original fire tower harks back to the days when the Eastern Shores section was under commercial forestry. Today, it has a well-stocked game park and the tower has been rebuilt and designed to maximise outstanding 360 degree views of a section of the park. The parking area at the end of Albacore Street towards the St Lucia Ski Boat Club and Sugarloaf campsite has also had a facelift, resulting in a parking area for visitors to indulge in authentic craft shopping, or to take the scenic stroll along the Estuary Boardwalk to the beach. And if you haven’t popped in to see the rebuilt kuMalibala Hide, it’s situated facing westwards towards the Lebombo Mountains (and sunset), with a winding path through natural vegetation sporting tree labels.