The mobile police station, which will alleviate the case load from the Nyanga police station, followed an outcry from the Samora Machel residents who had been travelling a long distance for the past 20 years. Nyanga police station serviced six areas: Old Crossroads, Heinz Park, Brown’s Farm, Sweet Home Farm, Samora Machel and Nyanga East. The new police station will see 116 police officers stationed at the facility with 54 vehicles and more would be added, said Minister of Police Bheki Cele. He was accompanied by other high ranking police officials including national police commissioner Khehla Sitole and Western Cape commissioner Khombinkosi Jula. “We are looking forward to working with the community and building a relationship using these resources to make an impact by reducing crime and improving lives. "We believe this will help and relieve the workload of the Nyanga police station and stop this cluster being the headquarters of murder in the country,” he said. Earlier this year Cele said a permanent structure would be set up by 2023. Nyanga community policing forum chairperson Martin Makasi said: “This has been long overdue, we are really happy that this has materialised because for years our cries fell on deaf ears. We are looking forward to a safer community especially now that we have entered the festive season. The Social Justice Coalition said: “This is an important step towards providing greater safety, security and justice for people currently living in the Nyanga police precinct. “The new police station is welcomed, but the size of it, and the reactionary response by SAPS to communities calling for more effective policing, is not going to solve the national, systemic crisis SAPS faces.” After the launch Cele fought back tears when he saw families including children of the 96 police officers killed in the line of duty still struggling to deal with the pain of their loss. Humanitarian organisation Gift of the Givers joined by Cele, Sitole and Jula donated five wheelchairs, food parcels, party packs and a hot meal to the families.