The party’s MPs are to be asked to introduce a motion of no confidence in Zuma in Parliament later this week, which is likely to succeed. This after his conditions were reportedly rejected by ANC president Cyril Ramaphosa, including: That Zuma take Ramaphosa on a tour to Africa and the world to introduce him to leaders, because he is not known. Zuma needing three months to wind things up before he can resign. There must be no reshuffling of the cabinet and no new appointments of directors-general. According to our information, Ramaphosa ended his negotiations, or “talks to manage the transition”, with Zuma and called an urgent meeting of the ANC’s Top Six (president, deputy president, chairperson, secretary-general, deputy secretary-general and treasurer) to report to them on the impasse. That is why Top Six members who had been scheduled to visit various communities and institutions in Cape Town to mobilise at the weekend for the Mandela Centenary launch at the Grand Parade yesterday had to cancel, and to return to the ANC headquarters at Luthuli House in Johannesburg. There Ramaphosa briefed them on Saturday on his rejection of Zuma’s conditions for his resignation. The Top Six backed Ramaphosa fully and resolved that there was no longer any point in continuing to “manage the transition” with Zuma, and that he should therefore go. The ANC leadership then decided to bring forward a national executive committee (NEC) meeting scheduled for Saturday to today. The Top Six is to propose to the NEC that the party’s members of Parliament be asked to introduce an urgent motion of no confidence in Zuma in the National Assembly within days. It is likely to be carried because many previous diehard Zuma backers in Parliament have publicly jumped ship and openly declared support for Ramaphosa as the new president of the ANC. An NEC member who is also an MP said most members in the structure were prepared to back Zuma’s removal. “This meeting is long overdue and everyone knows what we have to do, especially now that we know that the man has no genuine interest to go. The (ANC parliamentary) caucus is also prepared to facilitate Zuma’s departure.” Ramaphosa told the rally at the Grand Parade the ANC NEC would finalise the matter in the interest of the country, not an individual. “It is the interests of you, our people, that must be put first, and not the interests of anyone else,” he said. Once Zuma is out, the book is likely to be thrown at him over the many charges of corruption levelled at him. Ramaphosa was resolute, telling the rally: “We will wage a relentless war against corruption. Nelson Mandela was totally committed against corruption, theft and robbery of the assets of our people. We will continue with his legacy of fighting corruption and will make sure that those who are corrupt and steal from the poor are brought to justice. “That is what Mandela would have wanted. By so doing, we will continue to uphold Nelson Mandela’s highest 
values, great integrity and commitment to serving his people unconditionally. That is his legacy.” Ramaphosa said the ANC was determined to rebuild the confidence of the people, and to restore the credibility of those elected to serve. “We will put the interests of you, the people of South Africa, first. To do so, we will draw deeply on the wisdom of Nelson Mandela,” he said.