This move is attributed to a weekly drop in dam levels of only 0.5%, and the Groenland water reaching the Steenbras Upper Dam last week, slightly increasing the level of the dam. But Cape Town isn't out of the woods yet. Deputy mayor Ian Neilson said it was expected that Day Zero could move back into June again once the Groenland transfer had been completed, unless residents were able to meet collective water usage targets. There has been a further reduction in Cape Town’s weekly average demand to 523 megalitres per day (MLD). This, however, is still above the City’s target of 450 MLD. Dam levels stand at 24.4%. “The Groenland water transfer and the reduction in our weekly average demand have had a dramatic impact on the Day Zero date, which is determined by assuming that the fortnightly trend of weekly dam storage change will continue unchanged,” Neilson said. “This precautionary outlook assumes no further rainfall, and that water demand may not reduce over the next few months. It has been adopted to allow sufficient lead time for the implementation of temporary water collection points in the event that these may be required.” He urged residents not to ease up on their water-saving efforts. “We cannot afford to slow down when the estimated Day Zero date moves out, simply because we cannot accurately predict the volume of rainfall still to come, or when it will come. Last year we had abnormally low winter rainfall, and we cannot assume that this year will be any different,” Neilson said. Meanwhile, VinPro, which represents 3500 South African wine producers, cellars and industry stakeholders, said South African wine grape producers were under continued financial pressure due to the drought and economic challenges, but a structural shift was on the cards. This is according to VinPro’s Production Plan Survey, a financial benchmark among 495 farming units on the season leading up to the 2017 harvest. Despite dry, hot conditions, last year's wine grape crop amounted to 1.4million tons, a 1.4% increase from 2016. Production costs - which include direct cost, labour, mechanisation, fixed improvements and general expenses - have doubled in the past decade. VinPro senior agricultural economist Andries van Zyl said: “Although a slightly larger 2017 wine grape harvest resulted in an increase in gross farming income, it did not keep up with the above-inflation hike in input costs, and many producers still realise a net farming income that is not sustainable in the long run. “With the ageing and decreasing vineyard status, a structural shift is imminent, as local supply adjusts to meet global and local demand. "There is now an opportunity for Brand SA to reposition itself in the market, ensuring a much-needed reinvestment in local supply,” he said.