Their visit coincided with the launch of the centennial celebrations in honour of Nelson Mandela. Shaykh Yusuf  was born in 1626 of noble birth in Goa in the East Indies, and he fought alongside and supported Sultan Ajung of Bantam, Goa, in his war against the Dutch Twice Shaykh Yusuf escaped from Dutch custody in the East, but was persuaded in 1694 to surrender on the promise of a pardon. The Dutch did not fulfil their promise and he was banished, along with his family and followers; fearing Shaykh Yusuf’s influence in Ceylon, the Dutch exiled him to the Cape of Good Hope 10 years after his initial surrender. Historian Nazeem Braaf said Shaykh Yusuf, along with 49 followers, were housed on the farm Zandvliet, far outside Cape Town, in an attempt by the Dutch to minimise his influence on the slaves. “The plan failed as Yusuf’s settlement soon became a sanctuary for slaves, and it was here where the first Islamic community in South Africa was established. Yusuf died at Zandvliet on May 23, 1699, and was buried on the hills of Faure, which overlook the surrounding area which had been renamed Macassar after his place of birth,” he said. His burial site was in jeopardy, said Braaf, and the Muslim community was appealing to the leaders to ensure this heritage site and the many others in the province remain undisturbed. MJC first deputy president Moulana Abdul Khaliq Allie said that Shaykh Yusuf remained a beacon of hope, especially for the Muslim community and the MJC would ensure that the site remained for future generations. Meanwhile, Duarte said the ANC leadership was still in discussions with President Jacob Zuma: “These are complex matters and it's not just about an individual but about our country. Our (party) president Cyril Ramaphosa is leading the discussions and we have faith in him, and we have faith in his ability to find solutions to take us forward.” Duarte said that the ANC had lost the Western Cape because the party didn’t give their supporters the confidence needed to give the party another chance.