Cape Town - Capetonian Haroon Gunn-Salie is one of three leading young artists invited from Africa to showcase their work alongside 23 of their contemporaries from countries around the world, in an exhibition that opened recently in New York. Titled Songs for Sabotage, the New Museum’s fourth triennial brings together works across artistic mediums, while the exhibition itself amounts to a call for active engagement and interference in political and social structures, according to its American organisers. Appropriately, the 28-year-old Gunn-Salie has named 
his 17 exhibition sculptures Senzenina (2018) - meaning “what have we done” in Xhosa and Zulu. The sculptures depict haunting images of striking Marikana mineworkers crouching vulnerably and defenceless on the ground, before police shot dead 34 and wounded at least 78 in a highly-publicised massacre that took place on August 16, 2012. “This has been the biggest challenge I have had to undertake in my career,” Gunn-Salie said. “What is special about this, is that it looks at how social movements and activist movements are linked to art. “I’m very encouraged that I’m part of the exhibition.” After receiving an invitation to participate, Gunn-Salie said the potential for his work to be shown to a global audience dictated which works 
he would contribute to the exhibition. He said the Marikana figures had been conceptualised a number of years ago, but  finally had the right space to come to fruition. “As the audience enters the facility, you walk into a sculptured graveyard - ghost-like forms in matte black. Each figure of the 17 is hunched over, cowering,” Gunn-Salie said. The audience can view the work by immersing themselves in the art by kneeling or crouching near the figures, or standing in front of them, in the shoes of the police. Surrounding the work are sounds from the scene taking the audience back to that day. “The sound is archived from the hour leading up to the massacre. “We build up the scene. On one side you hear the police, you hear the workers on the other side until the rubber bullets are used against the workers. And then you have a rain of fire,” he said. After this, the scene takes a turn, and the sound of workers singing Senzenina engulfs the figures. “It is a freedom song as much as it is a funeral song. They (the workers) knew they were trapped. The song rings out as a liberation cry. “The message I want people to take away, is to put into question, what have we done, literally? How far have we come? “When you look at the 17 figures, they are talking about the power workers and unions have to bring about change. I hope the work will be an inspiration to people.” Gunn-Salie has been active in the local contemporary art scene while completing his BA Honours in sculpture at UCT’s Michaelis School of Fine Arts in 2012. Countries where his work has been exhibited include the Netherlands, France, the UK, Spain, Brazil and Germany.