Le by the St Cecilians Christmas Choir Band, the group walked from the District Six Homecoming Centre, down Caledon Street, with signs displaying various street names and placed stones at the cairn at a Cape Peninsula University of Technology residence building. Former resident Dianne Voges said: “The Cairn of Stones symbolises the sadness, heartbreak, tears, anger, frustrations of our people of District Six, being evicted from the places they called home. "I remember coming home from work in the evenings, riding by train and passing the Good Hope Centre, my heart cramped and tears fell as I’m yearning to be back at number 16 Bruce Street. They moved us to Belhar, commuting was hectic, a far cry from town where we could walk to work and everything,” she said. The chairperson of the District Six Museum’s Board of Trustees, Judge Siraj Desai, said the forced removals were a “crime against humanity”. “It saw 60000 people evicted. Fifty-two years is a long time, but the memory remains alive,” he said. Judge Desai said there was still much to be done in terms of land restitution. “Twenty-three years into democracy and restitution has still not taken place.” He said it was important that the land be declared a heritage site to stop the “steady encroachment on the land”. “The people from District Six must govern the site,” Judge Desai said. Shafiek Schreuder, who had lived in District Six for 25 years, said: “I was born in Hanover Street. It was a rainbow nation. We didn’t have cars but you could walk home late without problems.” During the forced removals, Schreuder and his family moved to Greenhaven in the Athlone area. “I worked in town so travelling was a challenge and there were no pavements, just sand. The south-easter was terrible on the Cape Flats.” He said it was “sad” to think back. “Many people passed on from a broken heart, they could not fight it.” His wife Shafeeqah grew up in McGregor Street, reminiscing: “It was a wonderful place to live, we had real community spirit. There were different types of people living together from different races and religions. The poor lived with the rich, life was easy and free.”