Kyzer Cottage was forced to shut down after the Department of Education was alerted to the institution operating without being registered. This has caused a major dilemma for the mother of a Grade6 pupil who is still not placed at a school despite the new term having started about four weeks ago. Warda Salie said her son cried every day as he wanted to go back to school. “When we got to the school at the beginning of the year on January 17, we were told the school is shutting down,” Salie said. The mother-of-two said since they had received the “devastating” news, it had been a stressful experience trying to find another school for her son. “I have approached schools in our area and even way outside our area. "Every time I am told to fill out application forms and when they give me feedback,
I am told their Grade 6 classes are already full. I don’t know what to do any more,” Salie said. Education department spokesperson Jessica Shelver said: “Kyzer Cottage is not a registered school. "Our officials visited the alleged ‘institution’ last year and issued them a letter informing them to shut down as there are learners of compulsory school-going age and they are not registered. “The owner was informed that it is illegal to operate such an institution without being registered. The illegal operation of such institutions has very serious consequences. “We caution any parent who enrols their child/children at these institutions that the WCED will not recognise any tuition that takes place at the school as formal education. "The learner will therefore still need to complete their formal education at a formal institution registered with the Western Cape Education Department.” The department has urged parents who are suspicious of a school which cannot present a registration certificate, or suspect the school is operating illegally, to contact the WCED. The contact details of the relevant officials are as 
follows: Nazli.Domingo-Salie - 021 4672235 or Nazli.Domingo- Salie@westerncape.gov.za  or Saul Philander - 021467 2580 or Saul.Philander@westerncape.gov.za. Parents can find a list of registered schools on http://wcedemis.pgwc.gov.za/wced/findaschool.html  chevon.booysen@inl.co.za 