This comes after the DBE released a policy eight months ago committing to providing high school pupils with comprehensive sexuality education to address the country's HIV, TB and STI burden and reduce teen pregnancy rates. The organisation is also calling for intensified collaboration between the DBE and the Department of Health (DoH) to offer these annual services in all high schools. MSF said it had been eight months since the policy was introduced and the DBE had failed to provide implementation guidance that learners “want to see in schools”. MSF is also calling for the DBE and DoH to offer annual HIV counselling and testing (HCT), TB and STI screening and year-round access to stocked condom dispensers in all high schools. “With nearly 2 000 girls and young women becoming infected with HIV in South Africa each week, MSF is concerned by the slow translation of the new policy into action, and lack of clarity on how HCT services and provision of condoms will be resourced and implemented. “The failure of the DBE to provide implementation guidance on the national policy on HIV, STIs and TB (2017) is severely limiting learners' access to HIV testing, condoms and other essential sexual and reproductive health (SRH) services in high schools, especially in local contexts of resistance to or conservative interpretation of the policy,” a statement from MSF reads. MSF patient and community support manager in King Cetshwayo District, KwaZulu-Natal, Ntombi Gcwensa said: “Our hope is that the policy guidance - when it finally comes - will be progressive, while also taking into account the views of learners and the knowledge of organisations that currently deliver health services in schools. “While not all learners agree on issues like the provision of condoms in schools, it is important that those who want SRH services can access them easily.” DBE spokesperson Elijah Mhlanga said they were in the process of implementation and that the accusations by the MSF were “baseless.” “It seems that they don't understand how it works. First you develop the policy, you get it approved and then you put together an implementation plan which involves training all the people who are going to be responsible for implementing the policy,” Mhlanga said. He added that from early next week, the DBE would be running workshops to train the people who will lead it on the ground. “To suggest that we are delaying the implementation is not only mischievous but disappointing, especially coming from medical practitioners who should understand that you don't just rush to implement, but you need to do so with caution having done all the preparatory work.”  chevon.booysen@inl.co.za 