This was the evidence of probation officer Susan Moses, whose report was read out at the Western Cape High Court in mitigation of sentence. She said that in her interviews with Plaatjies he refused to talk about the murder. “He regrets it. He wishes there was a way to change things back, but he accepts that he can’t. He won’t forgive himself. RELATED: Winnie Rusts's killer 'planned her death while she planned his bright future' “In his own words he said: ‘I made a wrong choice. The biggest mistake of my life.’ He was young at the time and still needed guidance,” said Moses. Rust, 77, was found dead on the kitchen floor by her husband, Mannie Rust, 87, in their home in Uitsig in May 2016. At the time of the murder, Plaatjies was 18 years old. While his uncle, Johannes Plaatjies, whom he accuses of being the mastermind behind the attack, was 34. “When we spoke about his role in the murder I could see how he struggled to keep his emotions intact. He kept fighting back the tears. He said he doesn’t want to talk about it, but that he has accepted his guilt,” she said. According to Moses’s report, Plaatjies could have been forced to participate in the attack. She said there was a possibility that he could have been influenced. Advocate Ken Klopper, for Johannes, disputed this statement. Klopper said Plaatjies had changed his version twice. He said Plaatjies first lied about his involvement, during in bail application, and then later pleaded to robbery and assault. "Nigel is the one who was carefree at the Absa ATM making transactions. The ATM is right in front of the police station. “He accepts guilt for the robbery and assault and not for the murder, the most serious charge?” he asked. Moses replied: “He was very clear that he regrets and accepts what he did. He said it was because of him that she was dead.” Plaatjies refused to take the stand and his defence closed its case. On Monday, the court heard the testimony of Rust’s daughter, Helene Reid, who said her mother had dedicated herself to planning a bright future for Plaatjies and had sponsored his education and sports. She said at the time of her death, Rust was assisting Plaatjies, who was a promising Wellington athlete, in acquiring his driver’s license. The matter continues today, 21 February 2018.  zodidi.dano@inl.co.za  Cape Argus