Over the past week, consumption has been lowered to 526 million litres a day. This is the first time that the weekly average usage has remained under 550 million litres. Deputy mayor Ian Neilson said dam levels were at 24.9%, compared to 36.1% last year and 43.3% in 2016. “A year ago, the average water demand was 830 million litres per day and the weekly change in dam levels was 1.9%. Two years ago water usage was more than one billion litres per day, resulting in a weekly change of 2.1%. "If our dam levels were currently dropping at this rate, we would reach Day Zero before the end of March. Our dam levels declined by 0.6% over the past week.” Neilson said the City was also grateful to the farming sector, especially associations such as the Groenland Water Users’ Association for their water transfer to the Steenbras Dam, and to the National Department of Water and Sanitation for facilitating this supply injection. “In accepting this transfer, we acknowledge the sacrifices that many in the farming sector have made during this extreme drought. The City will continue to implement pressure management to reduce usage, to install water management devices at the properties of high users and to conduct blitzes to ensure that all water users adhere to the water restrictions. "All preparations for the possibility of reaching Day Zero also continue as planned. We must all keep doing absolutely everything in our power to reach the target set by the National Department to reduce our urban usage by 45%. "Level 6b restrictions make it compulsory for residents to use no more than 50 litres per person per day to stretch our dwindling supplies through summer and into the winter months and thereby avoid the drastic step of having to queue for water." Meanwhile, boreholes with recently discovered clean groundwater were handed over to the Beaufort West local municipality by the Department of Mineral Resources yesterday. The water was found by the Council for Geoscience while the entity was conducting research in the area. The handover is expected to bring about some drought relief. Preliminary results showed the water is of good quality for drinking. “I want to convey my undiluted thanks and gratitude to Geoscience and the Honourable Minister Zwane for the gift of water - for giving us this life-changing borehole. "The word thank you cannot even come near to the gratitude I feel right now,” Beaufort West mayor Japie van der Linde said.