This was said by regional director of the national Department of Water Affairs Rashid Khan during a media tour at the dam, where the department exhibited its drilling of boreholes and the emergency work that is under way. Khan said the final 10% left in the dam will be usable, with the assistance of engineering. He said the drought required that the department implements intervention strategies and the areas it is looking at involve alternative water sources, including desalination and groundwater. Western Cape Premier Helen Zille said the immense challenge of the Western Cape’s longest drought on record would test the capabilities at all levels of government to their limits. During her State of the Province address on Thursday, she said this was not a normal drought. The devastating drought affecting Cape Town and other areas of the Western Cape has led to the implementation of severe water restrictions and the possibility of Day Zero, when the taps run dry. However, significant rainfall was expected over parts of the Western Cape and the Eastern Cape at the weekend. SA Weather Service spokesperson Hannelee Doubell said the particular rain system, which is expected to bring significant or heavy rain to many parts of the Cape provinces, is not expected to provide much relief for the Cape Peninsula and Boland regions. This system will barely deliver 10 to 15mm of rain for the Cape metropole. During his Budget speech, Finance Minister Malusi Gigaba announced that R6 billion had been set aside for drought relief in the Western Cape and other parts of South Africa. However, Zille slammed the national Department of Water and Sanitation, saying that to date no national funding had been made available for augmentation in the Western Cape water crisis. “As a result, the City of Cape Town has stepped into the breach with aquifer extraction, water reuse and desalination projects to the tune of some R5.9 billion over the five-year medium term revenue expenditure framework.” She added that no local government should have to shoulder the burden of capital and operational costs for a national function. “I note that in yesterday’s Budget that R6 billion was set aside for drought relief and infrastructure for the five provinces hit by the current drought,” she said. Zille said although R6bn was a lot of money, “divided between five provinces it will hardly touch sides if it is intended both for relief and new infrastructure. “The City’s infrastructure build programme on its own amounts to almost R6billion.” Meanwhile, residents of Gordon’s Bay who were collecting water from what they believed to be a fresh water spring have been discouraged from doing so. However, to make matters worse, the water diversion channel at Bikini Beach has no signage in place to notify residents that the water they see running into the ocean is, in fact, non-potable water. Ward councillor Johan Middleton said the water being channelled into the ocean contained high levels of metal. “This is definitely not fresh water running into the ocean. "There are about four sites where water is being directed into the ocean around Gordon’s Bay. "However, this water is not suitable for consumption as drinking water,” Middleton said. Cape Times