Avela Foundation founder Cami Palomo has gathered 
11 people to accompany her to Base Camp on Mount 
Everest. The foundation was recently established as a non-profit organisation for helping children with their physical and emotional recovery, and the expedition is in collaboration with the Smile Foundation. The 14-day expedition will run from April 30 to May 13. Palomo, originally from 
El Salvador but who now resides in Cape Town, aims to raise funds for Avela and other organisations that assist young burn victims, as well as raise funds to provide the latest technology and equipment to heal burn injuries. It is estimated that 3.2% of South Africans suffer serious burn injuries annually. According to the foundation, 68% of South African children younger than 14 
have suffered scalding 
burns. According to the World Health Organisation, about 180 000 deaths occur each year from fires, with more deaths from scalds, electrical and other forms of burns. According to the 2015 Global Health Estimates, 95% of fatal fire-related burns occur in low- and middle-income countries. In addition to those who die, millions more are 
left with lifelong disabilities and disfigurements, often with resulting stigma and rejection. “The Avela Foundation provides hope to those kids who are in desperate need of physical as well as emotional care after having suffered life-threatening or debilitating burn injuries” Palomo said. The Smile Foundation is an NGO that assists children with any facial condition to receive corrective plastic and reconstructive surgery within the country’s borders. The foundation helps children who suffer from treatable facial anomalies such as 
cleft lip and palate, burn injuries, and are based in 11 academic 
hospitals around South Africa. Hedley Lewis, chief executive for Smile Foundation, said climbing Mount Everest was an unbelievable challenge and his organisation lauded the Avela Foundation for partnering with them for the trip. “This journey is about overcoming challenges for both the climbers, but just as importantly for burn survivors. In this instance, Base Camp is a light for these survivors,” Lewis said. To get involved, visit http://avelafoundation.com/