“Swartz indicated that he is serious in his attempts to bring about a complete turnaround of rail services to the benefit of our members, most of the employees working for the state-owned enterprise  and to the benefit of millions of commuters nationwide who are depending on a reliable service to get to and from work,” Untu general secretary Steve Harris said. The union saw Walker’s “mismanagement of the rail services in the Western Cape as the reason the notorious Central Line was suspended for more than five weeks”. Metrorail confirmed on Wednesday that trains will resume operating on the Central Line on, following vandalism and an attack on a security guard in Khayelitsha. Walker had said the suspension of the Central Line service confirmed that Cape Town cannot function effectively without rail. “It is a historic, first integrated and comprehensive focus on the issues that derailed an essential service.” Prasa had also come under fire for suspending its services on the Central Line when its board appeared before Parliament’s portfolio committee on transport. “We have repeatedly said in the past that Walker does not have the ability to implement preventative measures to prevent chaos from erupting at stations under his command when trains are delayed,” Harris said. “He also had a total disregard for his responsibility in terms of labour legislation by providing his employees with a safe working environment. “Previous attempts by Prasa’s top management to remove Walker have been blocked by the acting Prasa board. ‘‘Untu does however believe that the board realises that it is not allowed to interfere with daily operational requirements of the passenger rail agency. “President Cyril Ramaphosa vowed with his State of the Nation address in Parliament that the boards of SOEs will no longer have a say in the procurement of contracts or intervene in the day to day operations.” Approached for comment regarding Untu’s claim, Prasa spokesperson Nana Zenani said the chief executive for rail, Nathi Khena, was at an executive committee meeting, but said the inquiry was receiving attention. She did not respond before going to press. Metrorail spokesperson Riana Scott said they could not confirm whether Walker was removed from his position. “It is factually correct to confirm that Walker is on leave until February 23.  We are unable to comment further on the matter,” Scott said.