Bloemfontein - Kamal Vasram, who is one of the accused in the case relating to the alleged misappropriation of millions of rands in the Vrede Dairy Project in the Free State, has been granted R100 000 bail by the Bloemfontein Regional Court on Monday morning. Vasram is accused number five in the matter. Last week seven of the accused were granted bail ranging from R10 000 to R200 000 by the Bloemfontein Regional Court. Read: #VredeDairy case: These are the accused and the charges they face The head of department in the Free State Agricultural Department Mbana Peter Thabethe, who is accused number one in the matter, together with chief financial officer Sylvia Seipate Dlamini and former general manager District Services in the department Dr Takisi Janki Masiteng were granted R10 000 bail. Former Oakbay CEO Ashu Chawla, former Oakbay director Nazeem Howa, another former Oakbay director Varun Gupta and Tegeta Resources director Ronica Ragavan were each given bail of R200 000. They were given reporting conditions at their nearest police stations and ordered surrender their passports. The eight are facing a host of charges including corruption, theft, fraud, conspiracy to commit fraud and contravening the Public Finance Management Act. The eight appeared before a packed courtroom under heavy police presence. National Prosecuting Authority (NPA) spokesperson Luvuyo Mfaku said they believe they have a strong case against the accused and are confident justice will be served. "The prosecutor's who brought the matter to court are specialists in commercial crime cases. They would never have brought the matter to court if they were not ready. They are very meticulous. We are very confident with our case," said Mfaku. The Hawks spokesperson Hangwani Mulaudzi said more arrests were imminent without giving further details. The accused are: 1. Mbana Peter Thabethe2. Sylvia Seipate Dlamini3. Dr Takisi Janki Masiteng4. Estina (Pvt) Ltd5. Kamal Vasram6. Oakbay (Pvt) Ltd7. Ashu Chawla8. Nazeem Howa9. Verun Gupta10. Ronica Ragovan11. Aerohaven (Pvt) Ltd The matter was postponed to August 17. IOL