The Oriental fruit fly, an exotic fly native to Asia, has been detected in Grabouw, the Department of Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries (DAFF) said on Monday, and growers, packing and processing facilities have been placed under quarantine. On 31 January, one male specimen was detected in a protein baited trap. The trap was serviced by FruitFly Africa which then reported it to DAFF. On 6 February a female specimen was detected in the same trap. Final confirmation of the identification of the specimens was made by means of PCR analysis. "A quarantine area of a 5km radius from the detection point was established after the first detection and a delimiting survey was initiated on 2 February 2018. Growers, packing and processing facilities of host material have been placed under quarantine and eradication initiated in a 25km2 area surrounding the detection point. Growers within the eradication area will have to apply for permits to remove produce for packing or to move produce outside the area subject to phytosanitary conditions," the department said in a statement. On 14 February , a third specimen was detected in a methyl eugenol baited trap approximately 6km from the first detection point close to Grabouw. The commercial fruit at threat include mango, guava, citrus, papaya, apple, pear, apricot, peach, pear, cherry, grapes, passion fruit, pepper, tomato and cucurbits.  This pest can result in food insecurity, yield reduction, job losses, market restrictions and high production and post-harvest costs, if not effectively controlled. This pest can be controlled by practicing effective orchard/field sanitation, chemical control [Male Annihilation (MAT) blocks and protein bait stations or protein bait sprays] and regulation of the removal of host material from quarantine (infested) areas to non-quarantine (non-infested) areas. As part of the official control mechanism, community members and farmers are reminded not to remove fruit from quarantine areas to non-quarantine areas without first receiving a removal permit which is obtainable from the DAFF in terms of the Control Measures R.110 of the Agricultural Pests Act,1983 (Act No. 36 of 1983). "All traders and transporters of fruit and vegetables that are hosts of the OFF must be in possession of a removal permit or a copy of a valid removal permit if fruit from infested areas (Limpopo, Mpumalanga, North West, Gauteng and some parts of Kwa Zulu-Natal) are removed or destined to be sold in the OFF pest free areas (Western Cape, Eastern Cape, Free State and parts of KwaZulu-Natal). International travelers are advised to avoid illegal importation of agricultural commodities into South Africa because this may lead to the introduction of new pests and diseases which are expensive and difficult to manage. "Please do not remove the fruit-fly trapping buckets placed along roadsides in production areas and other public areas. Their presence is essential to the national exotic fruit fly surveillance programme. "People in all provinces producing the host crops of this pest are advised to stay alert and practice the stipulated control measures."