The burnt body of 17-year-old Jodine Pieters was found at a lime works factory in Bredasdorp on January 21. Carlton Carelse, 25, and Jandre Hendricks, 18, were arrested for the murder a day after being questioned. Police confirmed four people were initially questioned, and that the two suspects were subsequently arrested. Bredasdorp community policing forum (CPF) spokesperson Renier Louw said the community was set to picket outside the Bredasdorp Magistrate’s Court today. “We are calling for no bail for the killers. We want justice to be served, and by picketing we are supporting the family and sending a strong message that we will not tolerate this in our community. “We also plan to promote our youth programmes while at court. “We want to engage our community’s youth to make them aware of safety and security as well,” Louw said. National Prosecuting Authority (NPA) spokesperson Eric Ntabazalila said the pair would appear on provisional charges of murder. “The suspects appeared on January 25 and their case has been postponed (until today) for further investigation and bail information. “The postponement is only for bail information, and thereafter if they want to apply for bail, it will be postponed for a bail application,” Ntabazalila said. Lucinda Evans, the director of Philisa Abafazi Bethu, a women and child protection NPO in Grassy Park, said they would be picketing along Prince George Drive in 
solidarity with the Bredasdorp community. “We tried to raise funds for petrol to go and support the community, but this was unsuccessful. So we decided 
to support them anyway by picketing along the road 
tomorrow between noon and 1pm,” Evans said. The Bredasdorp community has been rocked by violent crimes against young women since the murder of 17-year-old Anene Booysen, which took place almost five years ago. Booysen was raped, disembowelled and left for dead. 
She died on February 2, 2013 after living just long enough to utter one of her assailants’ names. Booysen’s attacker, Johannes Kana, was found guilty in November 2013 in the 
Swellendam Circuit High Court and is serving a double life sentence.  chevon.booysen@inl.co.za 