President Jacob Zuma remains South Africa's head of state and will be delivering the state-of-the-nation address next week, unless Parliament is told otherwise, Speaker Baleka Mbete said on Thursday. "There are processes that are going on every day and every night. At this point, the information we have is that the head of state is President Jacob Zuma so as far as we are concerned that is who is going to deliver the SONA until we hear different information," Baleka told journalists after a briefing about preparations for the speech to be delivered to a joint sitting of the National Assembly and the National Council of Provinces (NCOP). Mbete's comments came after NCOP chairwoman Thandi Modise during the briefing indicated that Parliament had no say over who would deliver the 2018 SONA, which sets out government's priorities for the next 12 months. "We have absolutely no intention as presiding officers to approach any president to say you must not come and give the State of the Nation address. "Remember that for us it is a president or the president that writes to us. Whoever is president will address us. That's all we know," said Modise. Parliament was expecting 1120 guests for the opening of Parliament which is expected to be accompanied by the usual pomp and ceremony, and is expected to bring together South Africa's three arms of state - the judiciary, the legislature and the executive. Presiding officers indicated that they had received requests from at least two opposition parties. One was from the Democratic Alliance calling for the postponement of SONA until Zuma is replaced and another was from the Economic Freedom Fighters who had requested a special sitting be held ahead of SONA so a vote of no confidence in Zuma could be debated. Deputy Speaker Lechesa Tsenoli said given the R4.3 million budget set aside for SONA, they would not be entertaining these requests. "The factors that are driven by the preparation that has been done, outweigh any reason for us to organise a special sitting. It would be the most unprecedented thing to happen now," he said. Tsenoli also indicated there would again be zero tolerance for disruptions to the SONA which have become commonplace in the last few years, with EFF MPs being forcefully removed from the House for loudly questioning Zuma's legitimacy as President. - African News Agency (ANA)