Up against top teachers from nine provinces, Mariëtte Vorster from Touwsranten Primary School in Hoekwil, near George, received the national teaching award for excellence in technology, enhanced teaching and learning at an awards ceremony at Nasrec in Gauteng at the weekend. The Grade 1 teacher said she had been teaching for 10 years and technology had helped her pupils reach their best ability and “opened opportunities for pupils to prosper”. “I did game-based learning with them when I was teaching them number ordering from high to low. They did not even know they were learning and within a week they had grasped the concept,” she said. Vorster said the award was an “honour” and was overwhelmed. “E-learning is transforming the way that we teach. Since I started teaching, I always incorporated some sort of technology like DVD players or overhead projectors," she said. ‘‘However, since our school was selected to be a part of the department's e-learning game changer programme we received more resources. "We became a LAN school, everything is wireless and I received an interactive whiteboard, all our learners also use a tablet." Vorster said that with the school being in a community with many socio-economic problems, the new technology had a very positive impact on pupils. She said each household in the community received 250 megabytes of data a day. Vorster said she would use this award as a platform to empower more teachers, so she could reach more learners. This is the second time that a Western Cape teacher won the national award for e-learning teaching in the past three years. The motivation for the Western Cape award described Vorster as a “vibrant, dynamic and very innovative teacher” who transformed her traditional classroom into one in which technology was the order of the day. “She aspired to become the best role model and mentor she could possibly be. She opened her home to help anybody wanting to learn more about information and communication technology (ICT) in the classroom,” the motivation said. Three Western Cape teachers received awards for achieving third place for excellence in their categories at the national awards. They are Jane Hampton, Little Bosch (Grade R teaching); Xolani William, Bernadino Heights High School (natural sciences - general education and training); and Anthony Ryan, Rondebosch Boys’ Preparatory School, (Nelson Mandela lifetime achievement award). Education MEC Debbie Schäfer said: “I would like to thank Miss Vorster as well as Miss Hampton, Mr William and Mr Ryan, for their contribution towards excellence in our schools. ‘‘Education is fundamental in any society, and whether our learners receive a good education or a bad education can determine the rest of their lives.”  nicola.daniels@inl.co.za  Cape Times