De Lille was in the firing line from her own party, the DA, after the auditor-general had downgraded the City’s audit status from clean to unqualified with findings. She also faced a motion of no confidence from the ANC. However, the opposition party in the city council made a U-turn at the 11th hour and withdrew its motion, saying it would not allow the DA to use its motion to fight its own destructive and “racist internal battles at the expense of the people of this city”. This did not stop the DA from forging ahead with its own motion of no confidence. DA provincial leader Bonginkosi Madikizela said the party had tabled its motion of no confidence in the mayor, and that this would be debated within 10 days of it being tabled. He had said the decision to rally behind the ANC's motion of no confidence in a fellow DA member was made with the realisation that the findings by the auditor-general and the independent investigation were damning and at odds with the principles of DA governments. “The DA’s federal executive (Fedex) had taken an unprecedented decision to place narrow political interests aside and vote for the motion of no confidence due to the prima facie evidence against the mayor brought to the fore by an independent counsel investigation and the auditor-general,” he said. During the debate of the auditor-general’s report in council, De Lille said: “If you look at the auditor-general’s report for the whole of the country, you will see how many other municipalities in the Western Cape also received an unqualified report with findings. "I am not trying to run away from responsibility, I am just trying to state the facts. “So when the auditor-
general presented this to us, the key question was: Who does leadership include? "Leadership includes, in terms of accountability, the mayor and the senior managers. The leadership includes the chief financial officer, the municipal manager, the mayor and mayoral committee,” said De Lille. “The buck stops here, but I am not alone,” she said. In a statement in response to Madikizela, who is also Human Settlements MEC, De Lille said the desperation to replace her had reached new heights, when the Fedex gave the DA caucus permission to vote with the ANC in the motion of no confidence that it had brought to the council, and which it had subsequently withdrawn. "I consider this to be a serious mockery of the values that the DA purports to stand for, which are fairness, freedom and opportunity," she said. “The comments made by the provincial leader in his statement are a blatant attempt to attack me publicly and to undermine the party’s process which will properly investigate the untested allegations against me contained in the Steenhuisen Report. "It would appear that certain party members think that by repeating the allegations it will become fact when the allegations against me remain untested.” She said the auditor-general also found that Madikizela’s department had regressed from a clean audit opinion to an unqualified audit opinion with findings. ANC leader in the city 
council Xolani Sotashe slammed the DA during the council meeting, labelling it “a bunch of cowards who cannot take responsibility”. “When Patricia de Lille was receiving clean audits for the past financial years, they (the DA) were not applauding those achievements (as the work of) an individual. "They were applauding those achievements (as the combined efforts of) the party. But now the DA has egg in its face because the so-called well-run city has regressed.” He said the auditor-general’s problem centred on supply-chain management and that a faction led by deputy mayor Ian Neilson had influence over the supply-chain management system.  