The Hawks raided the family home of businessmen friends of President Jacob Zuma in Johannesburg on Wednesday amid a probe into allegations that the family used their links with the president to win state contracts and influence Cabinet appointments. The raid on the family home of the Guptas came a day after the ANC ordered Zuma to step down as head of state after nine years in office dogged by scandal and a stagnant economy. A dozen heavily armed tactical police blocked off a street leading to the Gupta home in Saxonwold. A police officer told Reuters: "This is a crime scene." Zuma and the Guptas - a family of wealthy Indian-born businessmen - deny any wrongdoing. A lawyer for the Gupta family said he could not comment on the raid because he had yet to see the search warrant. Read: BREAKING NEWS: Hawks raid Guptas' Saxonwold home Hawks spokesman Hangwani Mulaudzi said the raid was part of an investigation into allegations of influence peddling in the government. The allegations are also the subject of a judicial inquiry on wider corruption. "We're viewing this investigation in a very serious light. We're not playing around in terms of making sure that those who are responsible in the so-called state capture, they take responsibility for it," Mulaudzi said. He declined to give details of what was seized or if the business premises of the Guptas would also be raided, saying a full statement would be released later on Wednesday. Two of the Gupta brothers were reportedly arrested by the Hawks. In an operation that started this morning, two cars of the elite police unit were seen parked outside the mega homestead. A group of officers, some in police gear, later emerged from the home. They drove off without addressing a throng of journalists camped outside the house. The home remained guarded by private security guards. Clad in black, they were seen opening a gate for a car that drove in. The Saxonwold home has over the years also garnered its own controversy.
Former Public Protector Thuli Madonsela pinpointed it as a venue for various dodgy meetings between members of the Gupta family and government officials. Zuma was expected to respond on Wednesday to an order from the ANC to resign as head of state, party officials said. The ANC said on Tuesday it had decided to "recall" Zuma, a euphemism for removing him from office, but gave him no firm deadline to resign, setting the stage for a potential fight to wrest him from power. ANC secretary-general Ace Magashule said the party's national executive was split on when Zuma should step down, although the party expected him to respond to the order by Wednesday. Finance Minister Malusi Gigaba told CNN late on Tuesday Zuma was expected to address the nation at 10am on Wednesday. Zuma's spokesman could not be reached for comment and there was no official confirmation from the presidency that the address would take place. ANC spokesman Pule Mabe told the SABC that Zuma remained "a disciplined member of the ANC and would do what is best for a cadre of the movement". Zuma is already facing a no confidence motion in parliament, brought by the opposition Economic Freedom Fighters and set for February. 22. The ANC could throw its weight behind such a vote if Zuma, who has survived several no-confidence motions in the past, refused to resign. The entire Cabinet would have to step down if such a vote went through. Reuters