A TASK team and the Hawks are searching for a group of armed suspects who killed five police officers on Wednesday morning. National Police Commissioner General Khehla John Sitole said the group of armed suspects entered the Ngcobo Police Station between Umtata and Queenstown in the Eastern Cape in the early hours of Wednesday morning and, without warning, randomly opened fire on the members on duty. Three members were killed instantly in the Community Service Centre. The suspects then made off with a police van taking two other members, whose bodies were later found along the roadside, six kilometers from the police station. According to preliminary investigations,  it appeared they were shot execution style, Sitole said. “While the motive for this attack is not clear yet we have established that the suspects have a robbed an ATM a short distance away from the police station, stolen 10 firearms as well as a police van from the station. This callous and cold-blooded attack has been condemned in the strongest possible way. I am appalled and deeply saddened by the cold and callous attack on our colleagues this morning. I have activated a task team comprising of experienced detectives of the South African Police Service and the Directorate for Priority Crime Investigation to investigate this attack," said Sitole. The team will be supported by specialized medium to high risk teams with the added support of the Airwing. "We will not rest until we have tracked down these heartless killers and bring them to book", added Sitole. Police Minister Fikile Mbalula condemned the act, and has called for calm among members. “I call for calm from our members, as I am aware how emotional this horrific incident is. Today I have instructed General Khehla Sitole to hunt those barbaric  criminals and bring them to book. They must regret the day they sat and  planned to attack the state. This act further adds the number of guns in the wrong hands and reversing the  hard work the Police have been doing to clean our streets of illegal firearams and keeping our country safe. The task team has been activated comprising of experienced detectives and DPCI (Hawks),"Mbalula said. Sitole has called upon the community to assist with any information that could help identify and bring the perpetrators to book, as this is a heartless attack on the State. Information can be communicated to the SAPS Crime Stop number 086 00 10111. Callers may remain anonymous and all information will be treated in the strictest of confidence.