The couple’s walk on the beach on Saturday  nearly turned tragic when an unknown man allegedly assaulted them before making off with their belongings. The attack comes less than a week after police arrested two men linked to the robbery of nine people on a hiking trail on the mountain above Kalk Bay. Five of them were stabbed. That breakthrough came after police had issued identikits of the suspects aged 18 and 32. They faced charges of robbery with a weapon other than a firearm when they appeared at the Muizenberg Magistrate's Court last week. The suspects remain in custody. Police spokesperson Noloyiso Rwexana said Ocean View police were investigating a case of robbery with a deadly weapon other than a firearm following the Noordhoek incident at the weekend. “According to information, a couple aged 54 and 59 were walking on the beach when an unidentified suspect threatened them with a knife and demanded their belongings. "The victims were attacked by the suspect and  transported to a medical facility for treatment,” said  Rwexana. She said that no one had been arrested. NSRI Kommetjie station commander Ian Klopper said their medical crew responded to Klein Slangkop where the couple were at a security guard hut seeking assistance. “They were seeking assistance after being robbed of their possessions and the wife stabbed while walking on Noordhoek Beach. NSRI medics treated her for a head laceration believed to have been sustained by a knife stabbing and Cape Medical Response (CMR), the police and others were activated,” said Klopper. He said the woman was taken into the care of CMR paramedics and taken to hospital by ambulance in a stable condition. Police have opened an investigation, he said. Anyone with information regarding the incident is requested to contact Ocean View police station at  021 783 8300 or call Crime Stop at 08600 1011, alternatively SMS Crime Line at 32211. * In another incident police arrested two people in connection with a house robbery in the Crossroads area. Police say one of them went to an address in Crossroads pretending to be a customer. “But when the house occupants opened for him, five more suspects came in and threatened the occupants. They then ransacked the house." Two suspects were arrested and further investigation led to the recovery of stolen goods in a shack in Boystown in Crossroads, said Rwexana. Cape Times