Shamese Abib, mother of 19-year-old Keeno Abib, said after more than a month of her son's death, she was ready to take Metrorail to task. She said her son was with a group of friends on January 13 on their way back home after a day at St James beach. “They were a group who wanted to go swimming for the day and they left early that morning. Had I known what would happen, I would never let my son leave the house. “The past few weeks have been so busy with dealing with the trauma and arranging his funeral. "Now that everything has calmed down, I realised Metrorail has to be held accountable. “Keeno’s friends told me they were on the train on their way home at about 2.30pm that day when a group of men got into the same carriage they were in.” Keeno matriculated from Heathfield High School last year. His friends had said they were joking among each other when the men “chimed in” and Keeno and his other friend said to them “they were talking to each other and not the group of suspects”, Abib said. “Keeno and his one friend were standing at an open door in the carriage blocking the doorway, as there were children running in the carriage as well. "One of the men then approached Keeno, showed him a firearm and asked him for Keeno’s takkies and top.” According to his friends, the teenager got a fright and fell out of the carriage and died. “My son's life was in danger whether those carriage doors were open or closed. There were armed suspects aboard robbing people. What are the securities doing?” A post-mortem report showed Keeno died due to blunt force trauma. “He was such a bright and responsible boy. He never brought any trouble. "He was going to study graphic design and engineering this year. “We miss him so much. His 14-year-old brother misses him a lot because they used to do everything together. "His friend sometimes comes to our place just to sit with his ashes.” Metrorail spokesperson Riana Scott said: “Metrorail has not yet been formally notified of the charges, but will fully co-operate with the police investigation.” Police spokesperson André Traut said the case was under investigation. “The identities of the parties concerned cannot be disclosed.”  chevon.booysen@inl.co.za 