Johannesburg - The ANC's alliance partner Cosatu has called on the ANC to consider instituting disciplinary action against President Jacob Zuma for defying its constitution and bringing the party into disrepute. The federation also held no punches and encouraged the ANC to remove Zuma through the Parliamentary process through a motion of no confidence, even if it means voting with  opposition political parties. Cosatu was responding to the ANC National Executive Committee (NEC) decision to recall Zuma as state president. ANC Secretary General Ace Magashule confirmed the NEC decision at a media briefing on Tuesday afternoon. He said Zuma would give a response by Wednesday. READ MORE: #Zuma 'refuses to resign' It was also confirmed that the NEC wants ANC President Cyril Ramaphosa to take over from Zuma, and they also want him to deliver the State of the Nation Address (SONA). Cosatu believes the decision to "not embarrass" Zuma was ill-advised. It also said that it was also not surprised by the news that Zuma had refused to resign. According to the organisation, Zuma has divided and humiliated the ANC and destroyed the alliance. "The ANC under his leadership behaved like a fanatical cult. While the idea of not humiliating him was gracious from the new leadership, we think the time has arrived for the ANC to stop this undistinguished political theatre and put the country first. We call on them to recall President Zuma using parliamentary processes and if it means supporting the Motion of No Confidence that was tabled by the EFF, so be it," said Cosatu spokesperson Sizwe Pamla. "Cosatu also urges the ANC to explore the possibility of charging President Zuma and subjecting him to a disciplinary process for defying a Constitutional structure of the ANC and bringing the organisation into disrepute." Labour union Fedusa also shared similar sentiments and called for Zuma to resign immediately. Another alliance partner, the SACP, also welcomed the news and said this was  the beginning of  renewing the party and the alliance. Politics Hub