This comes as the Central Line has already been out of service for more than a month, putting immense pressure on other public transport. Metrorail could not say when the service would be operational again. Steve Harris, general secretary of Untu, said: “Unfortunately, while the Central Line remains closed due to the constant vandalism of the line by criminals, it appears the crime spree on the railway lines has increased on the Northern Line.” A 35-year-old Passenger Rail Agency of South Africa (Prasa) ticket control officer and three of her colleagues were robbed by five armed people at the Somerset station while working on Sunday. Approached for comment, Metrorail spokesperson Riana Scott said: “Prasa has formal Human Capital Management policies and procedures where important issues like these should be raised with management to resolve issues of concern. We encourage Untu to follow procedure so that these issues can be addressed." She said the region was operating with 60% of its required fleet of 84 train sets. The diminished fleet also operated with fewer than the required carriages. “On-board vandalism has soared, with 60 to 70 carriages per month ending up back in workshops, having been stripped of copper wiring. "It is costly and unsustainable and results in unprecedented 
levels of overcrowding while carriages are being rewired. "Metrorail spends about R70 million per annum on 
maintenance and repairs of infrastructure.” Scott confirmed they were working on a recovery plan with technical engineering repairs and maintenance, safety and security elements. “Some interventions are already in the supply chain/procurement process,” she said. Metrorail will spend R68m to wall/fence 15km on either side of the railway tracks where vandalism is most prevalent - the triangle of  Langa-Nyanga-
Netreg - to prevent ingress on to the operating tunnel. She added that “external socio-economic issues unrelated to the provision of mobility” had a large impact on the service. “Unless the spiralling crime rate/gangsterism in these areas is not addressed decisively, any effort by the region to fund further improvements will be fruitless. Metrorail operates trains, it cannot be held solely responsible for reining in unbridled crime spilling on to the rail network,” Scott said. Golden Arrow spokesperson Bronwen Dyke-Beyer said an increase in commuters were placing a burden on their bus services during peak hours. “While we would very much like to assist by providing additional buses, we simply do not have any extra buses to add.” In total, R292m will be spent this year to further protect critical assets and on-target hardening of strategic infrastructure. The national Department of Transport recently confirmed that R9 billion had been assigned to the Western Cape’s rail infrastructure modernisation.  nicola.daniels@inl.co.za   sandiso.phaliso@inl.co.za 