This after the officers allegedly behind the fatal shooting of Nando's employee Phumeza Fudumele walked free after an internal disciplinary hearing found them "not guilty". Last week the Cape Times reported the National Prosecuting Authority would not prosecute the officers implicated in Fudumele’s killing nearly two years ago, instead preferring to hold an inquest where oral evidence would be led. Fudumele, a Dunoon resident, was killed in a hail of bullets in February 2016 while she and colleagues were on their way home after working the late shift at the Nando’s in Parklands, Table View. Read: Nando’s killing: cops off the hook Another Nando’s staffer was wounded in the shooting. Police at the time claimed they had received a call that an ATM had been bombed in the Dunoon/Milnerton area, but when they arrived at the scene they found nothing. The Independent Police Investigative Directorate (Ipid) said the vehicle the staff were travelling in had matched the description of a car identified as being involved in the alleged ATM bombing. Nando’s said it had been following the case following “very closely” and a concurrent civil matter it had initiated was also ongoing. “Although it may appear that the accused have been deemed free of blame, this is not yet the end of the road. This is a matter that cannot go unresolved," said Nando’s South Africa chief executive Mike Cathie. “We are determined to use every available avenue to ensure the facts of the case are properly interrogated, so the Fudumele family get the closure they need and that Phumeza is given the justice she deserves." During this inquest, oral evidence will be led and the witnesses subjected to cross examination. “This needs to be done so that we can obtain the reason and culpability for her death. A concurrent civil matter, initiated by ourselves, is also ongoing. It’s our understanding that Ipid is still investigating the case at the request of the inquest prosecutor and Nando’s has not been given any further updates,” said Cathie. He said they were unaware of the internal disciplinary process held that police did not know the officers allegedly behind the fatal shooting had been found “not guilty”. Cape Times