Garden Route National Park manager Paddy Gordon said the trail is a three-hour, 5km route that goes through a forest patch, where hikers cross the Duiwe River at least five times. The couple were on it when robbed of their belongings, including cellphones and camera, on Monday. “We immediately responded by increasing the number of rangers patrolling the Brown Hooded Kingfisher trail," said Gordon. “The couple are staying in a private establishment close to the National Park. Upon hearing news of the robbery, SANParks rangers and police immediately went to look for suspects as described by the victims.” The couple were expected to attend a trauma debriefing session organised by the police. While the police continued to search for the suspects, Gordon said, SANParks increased the number of patrols on the trail and was continuing to engage the Wilderness policing forum. SANParks is requesting all visitors undertaking trails not to make expensive valuables visible, said Gordon. Southern Cape police spokesperson Malcolm Pojie said the assailants wore masks during the robbery. “Although the couple were traumatised by the incident, they didn't sustain injuries. “Two of the three suspects carried knives with which they threatened the victims, a 54-year-old man and his partner, before they robbed them of their jewellery (watches and wedding rings), a Sony camera, sunglasses, cellphones and a substantial amount of cash,” said Pojie. DA Western Cape community safety spokesperson Mireille Wenger said the safety of the more than 5 million annual visitors to SANParks areas must be ensured. Over the past 12 months, she said, at least 85 attacks had taken place in SANParks areas in the Western Cape, including, this month alone, an attack on nine hikers in the Silvermine Nature Reserve; a man murdered on Kalk Bay Mountain while walking with his wife; and a family who were attacked while walking on Noordhoek beach. Anyone with information is requested to contact the investigating officer at 0448034715 or Crime Stop at 0860010111.