The Peninsula School Feeding Association (PSFA) said instead of their usual lunch, over 25 000 youth in more than 140 primary, high schools and tertiary education institutions are now receiving a sandwich for their lunchtime meal. Level 6B water restrictions were implemented on  February 1, limiting Cape Town water users to only 50 litres each. “The current drought and resulting water crisis have started to impact schoolchildren in a very direct way; their school feeding. This necessitated Peninsula School Feeding Association to be proactive and reduce the usage of water for their cooking,” the organisation said. Food preparers have been unable to access water for cooking of meals due to the strict water restrictions. PSFA said this further impacted on the stockpiling of ingredients like samp, beans, rice and soya mince. These ingredients are used in the daily menus which included meals such as fish, rice and butternut or samp and beans with fresh fruit. Director of the PSFA Petrina Pakoe said they have been keeping a watchful eye on the “serious water crisis” in the province. “We have done our research on how much water it takes to prepare our meals in schools and have come to realise that over 200 000 litres are used monthly in the preparation of lunch meals in the 147 schools on the PSFA scheme alone,” Pakoe said. About a decade ago PSFA developed a cooked menu with the assistance of nutritional experts from the Department of Education to provide for 30% of a child’s daily recommended dietary intake (RDI) of nutrients. Operations manager of the PSFA Amelia Koeries said they adapted their new “dry” lunch menu to include as much nutritional value as possible. Contrary to rumours that children will be having jam, PSFA is having none of that. “We have sourced a baker to specially bake a brown bread for us. “This will be served with toppings such as baked beans, alternated with pilchards, high in omega oils,” Koeries said. The City did not respond to questions on Thursday. Similarly at a primary school in Lavender Hill, pupils were left without water for two days last week. Zerilda Walk Primary, which also has a feeding scheme, was closed for two days due to their water being cut. The South African Democratic Teachers Union previously said a school in the Boland had also turned off its water and the children were no longer getting a hot meal. Some children rely on the meals they get at schools and the Boland school was now giving its pupils bread and jam instead, the union said.  chevon.booysen@inl.co.za 