Cape Town - A 31-year-old Delft resident landed in hot water this week when a vigilant examiner at the Milnerton Driving Licence Testing Centre caught him cheating during his learner’s licence test. The examiner noticed that the applicant was acting suspiciously and when she approached him, she noticed he was copying answers from a piece of paper that he had with him in the examination venue.   Mayco member for Safety JP Smith said he hid the piece of paper when approached and denied that he was cheating on the test. However, he was later found in possession of a sheet of paper with answers to all of the questions for the learner’s licence test. He was arrested. "This is an extremely brazen act, but also deeply concerning because no group of applicants is given exactly the same test paper. "This suspect had answers for all of the questions so it raises the possibility of inside involvement. This will be part of the investigation into this matter, but needless to say it is extremely disappointing" Smith said. In April last year , a 19-year-old man was arrested for possession of fraudulent documents when he tried to book a driving licence test in Milnerton. A few weeks earlier, two friends were arrested at the Durbanville DLTC when the one tried to write the test on the other’s behalf. In the last quarter of 2017, there were 33 190 learner licence tests conducted at the City’s DLTCs with a 65% pass rate (21 666). This was down from 33 951 tests conducted over the same period in 2016, where the pass rate was 64%. "While we have seen a slight drop in the number of learner’s and driving licence applications, there is still great demand for these qualifications. "It’s not an easy process because, in the interests of road safety, we have to rigorously test anyone who wants to operate a motor vehicle. "I appeal to prospective drivers to resist attempting shortcuts. While it may seem like a good idea to try and circumvent the system, it could have devastating personal consequences down the line," Smith said.