The victims died on Wednesday during an attack on the Engcobo police station in the Eastern Cape. National police commissioner General Khehla Sitole said the group of armed men entered Engcobo police station, between Mthatha and Queenstown, and randomly opened fire on the SAPS members on duty. Three officers were killed instantly in the community service sentre. The attackers then made off with a police van, taking two officers with them. Their bodies were later found along the roadside, 6km from the police station. According to preliminary investigations, it appeared they were shot execution-style, Sitole said. “While the motive for this attack is not yet clear, we have established that the suspects robbed an ATM a short distance away from the police station, and stole 10 firearms as well as a police van from the station. "This callous and cold-blooded attack has been condemned in the strongest possible way. I am appalled and deeply saddened by the cold and callous attack on our colleagues this morning. "I have activated a task team comprising experienced detectives of the SAPS and the Directorate for Priority Crime Investigation (the Hawks) to investigate this attack.” Police Minister Fikile Mbalula condemned the attack and called for calm among SAPS members. “I call for calm from our members, as I am aware how emotional this horrific incident is. Today I have instructed General Sitole to hunt those barbaric criminals and bring them to book. "They must regret the day they sat and planned to attack the state. This act further adds to the 
number of guns in the wrong hands and reversing the hard work the police have been doing to clean our streets of illegal firearms and keeping our country safe. "The task team has been activated, comprising experienced detectives and DPCI (Hawks)." Sitole called on the local community to assist with any information that could help identify and bring the perpetrators to justice, as this was a heartless attack on the state. Information can be communicated to the SAPS Crime Stop number 086 00 10111. Callers may remain anonymous, and all 
information will be treated in the strictest confidence. Read: Fatal attacks on #Ngcobo police a 'national tragedy'