Forum chairperson Roegshanda Pascoe said she now hoped more criminals would fall. Gang-affiliated Nizaam Jordaan, 25, and Rozario Lottering, 28, from Manenberg, were each convicted on a charge of murder last week. “I am very glad that they have been sentenced and well done to the investigating officer to ensure the sentencing. However, the police can do more to ensure the same result for the several other cases,” she said. Police spokesperson FC van Wyk said Jordaan was sentenced to 24 years' imprisonment and Lottering will serve 20 years. “On April 27, 2016, at 8.10pm, 27-year-old Ashley Davids, who was a member of a local gang, was walking in the area with his girlfriend when two men known to him approached them. ‘‘As they got closer, without any warning, Jordaan pulled out a firearm and fired several shots at Ashley. He was hit in the chest and died on the scene. Both men then fled the scene on foot,” Van Wyk said. After being found guilty, Jordaan was sentenced to 20 years' imprisonment for murder, eight years for the possession of a firearm and four years for the possession of ammunition. The possession of a firearm and ammunition sentences will run concurrently. “Lottering was also found guilty of murder in the Western Cape High Court on February 7 and was sentenced to 20 years' imprisonment. Both men are members of the Clever Kids gang,” Van Wyk said. Pascoe said: “The police and our communities need to work together, but unfortunately the community has lost faith in the police due to corruption. ‘‘I always receive tip-offs from my community and even other communities who would share information with me, and when I tell them to report it at the police station, they tell me they do not trust the police. “Communities witness policemen who associate with gangsters and this makes them lose trust. Policemen and women need to understand their job description. "We can’t afford for relationships between the community and police to be unfavourable.” Manenberg CPF chairperson Kader Jacobs said: “The Manenberg CPF applauds the successes of the Manenberg SAPS and would like to see an intensification of their efforts. ‘‘We have seen a calm in the area due to many law enforcement operations and hope that these operations will be sustained.”