The EFF and DA have welcomed the reports that the Hawks are swooping in on the Gupta brothers, beginning with an early morning raid on the family compound in Saxonwold, Johannesburg. According to reports, the elder Gupta brother, Ajay, has been taken in for questioning following three arrests made by Hawks this morning. The EFF in the Free State said it "welcomes the swift action by the Hawks which has led to the arrests of those responsible for the grand theft of over R220m meant for black farmers in Vrede". "These arrests of the Gupta brothers, their business associates and the HOD of the Department of Agriculture in the province are a clear indication that the net is quickly closing on the (Jacob) Zuma and Ace Magashule criminal network which has seen billions of rands meant for service delivery and the development of public health and education infrastructure being syphoned and laundered to outside the country and some even used to sponsor lavish weddings and lifestyles. "We have been reliably informed, because of our close proximity to the case, that there are more high-profile arrests that are still coming and we remain hopeful that some of them will lead to the kingpins, such as Ace Makgashule and Mosebenzi Zwane also brought to book. "We call on all people of the Free State to be on the alert and ensure that they report all the corruption in this province. We would like to assure them that EFF shall never rest until all those who steal from the people are exposed and locked behind bars." The DA said the arrest are "six months overdue and if any incriminating evidence has been found at the residence, it would be by accident as the compound would likely have been cleared out months ago". "The Gupta brothers must face up to the allegations of corruption and their involvement in state capture. "The investigations and action simply cannot end here and must continue to all those implicated, including key ministers, such as Mosebenzi Zwane, Des van Rooyen, Lynn Brown, David Mahlobo. "They too must answer the allegations and be arrested and prosecuted if needs be. "The Hawks must also ensure that ANC secretary-general Ace Magushule is thoroughly investigated for his alleged role in relation to the Vrede dairy farm project in which R10m allegedly went directly to Atul Gupta. "Although the wheels of justice have moved slowly until recently, the raids this morning are a step in the right direction. We cannot however lose momentum. "The country’s crime-fighting bodies must push ahead to ensure all those implicated in stealing from the people of South Africa are investigated and held accountable."