The aggressive claim by the Gupta lawyers comes on the heels of a controversy brewing in India about the circumstances in which one of the Gupta brothers, Ajay, left India. His sudden disappearance has been deemed similar to the one pulled off by an absconding jeweller, Nirav Modi, who has been accused of swindling the government Punjab National Bank by $2 billion (R23bn). It is alleged Ajay Gupta, like Modi, may have been tipped off to leave India to avoid police action. Hawks spokesperson Hangwani Mulaudzi said: “We have a warrant of arrest. The warrant of arrest remains active. We are looking for Ajay Gupta. " They (lawyers) can say whatever they want. They are making demands for us to hand over investigations and they also want to see the warrant of arrest. "And we are asking ourselves where has it ever happened in this country or anywhere where a suspect is wanted now and we have to go and ask for permission from a lawyer to arrest the suspect? He said the lawyers representing Ajay were not negotiating in good faith. Until last week, just before Ajay Gupta fled India, he was partying in his hometown of Saharanpur in the North Indian state of Uttar Pradesh. His visit to India was cut short rather abruptly when the news of Jacob Zuma stepping down reached him. Shortly thereafter he slipped away to an unknown destination. The answers that are being provided in the halls of power in the country are pointing to the complicity of the government of India, which ensured that he was afforded high-level protection that is normally reserved for VVIPs. Gupta was put under the protection of “Z security” by the Indian Home Ministry. What this means is that just days prior to being classified a fugitive from justice by the 
minister of Police, Ajay Gupta was provided one of the highest levels of protection possible from the Indian government - fit for a chief minister. What is undeniable is that the Gupta brothers - Atul, Ajay, and Tony - are very well networked with the central and other state governments of India. Clearly, without government support they would not have received the much-
coveted security cover from police commandos - though reportedly they paid for it. A senior politician, one of the many who travelled to South Africa to attend the Guptas’ only sister’s daughter’s wedding in 2013 told Independent Media: “He has bipartisan support. Earlier, the Congress and regional party leaders were backing him and now the BJP - both in Delhi and the provinces. It is due to their network and proximity with people in power that they get security cover.” What is clear is that Ajay Gupta, going by the circumstances of his flight from India, seems to have been advised to leave the country before any “look-out notice” from Interpol or  “letters rogatory” - documents making a request through a foreign court to obtain information or evidence from a specified person within the jurisdiction of that court - against him were brought. A government source has informed Independent Media that no request had come in from Pretoria or from the South African High Commission in Delhi to arrest or detain Ajay Gupta. The government in Delhi has blemished its record by allowing the escape of several "moneybags" from India, who could have got grief from the police or the courts. Nirav Modi pulled off the biggest scam ever executed by an individual by forging letters of undertaking and exported millions worth of diamonds from South Africa and elsewhere. Before that, Lalit Modi, who organised the India Premier League (IPL) cricket tournament in South Africa, also left India before the police could catch him. Coincidentally, before that another businessman with sizeable  interests in South Africa, and famously called the liquor king, Vijay Mallya, also slipped out of India when the banks sought police help to recover their loans. With this kind of leaky system, largely attributed to payoffs at the highest level, it would be no surprise if the Gupta brothers got advance warning from their supporters in the present dispensation. The Guptas have friends in all the political parties, who have admired their high life and their formidable network in South Africa. They are known to enjoy proximity to yoga guru and now a retailer of Indian spirituality, Baba Ramdev, who is considered to be quite close to India’s ruling party, the Bhartiya Janata Party. He has also travelled to South Africa and scouted out business opportunities. Cape Times