It is acting on behalf of Sonskyn Valley residents in Mossel Bay, whose children’s school bus contract was recently stopped. The residents relocated last year from Power Town, which affected their distance from their schools. Legal representative Hlengiwe Mtshatsha said both the municipality and the WCED had agreed to provide pupil transport. “The busy route poses a danger, particularly to the younger learners. "Secondly, parents cannot afford to pay for private transport in the absence of assistance from the department of education. “Eventually the children may have to change schools, but that is also not conducive as some of the learners are already in grades 11 and 12, and are unable to change their curricula,” LHR said in a 
letter to the WCED. Mtshatsha said yesterday the department had not yet replied to the letter, which asks for the transport to start immediately or they would approach the high court. They would, however, wait until Education MEC Debbie Schäfer responded, because they wanted to properly discuss the issue, which affects about 50 pupils, Mtshatsha said. Schäfer and department head Brian Schreuder were visiting Ireland and Finland until Sunday. Schäfer’s spokesperson, Jessica Shelver, said they had informed LHR that they needed more time to respond and, in terms of policy the WCED provides transport for pupils from poor communities who live more than 5km from their nearest school, where public transport is not available. The department does not provide free transport if hostel accommodation is available. Approval was granted last April for the transportation of the pupils until the end of the 2017 school year, with a request that pupils are placed at appropriate schools closer to their homes prior to this year. The school principals of Great Brak Primary and High School informed the parents they must apply for a place for their children at the closest school for 2018. Parents have the primary responsibility of applying for admission for their children. “A meeting was held with officials from the district (including the director), the principal of Hartenbos Primary School (Mr Oosthuizen) and the mayor of Mossel Bay Municipality. “During this meeting the principal of Hartenbos Primary School gave the assurance that he would be able to place all the learners from Great Brak Primary School, who were at that stage being transported from Power Town,” Shelver said.  francesca.villette@inl.co.za 