As World Cancer Day brought the life-threatening disease into the spotlight yesterday, Dr Karin Baatjes, a specialist surgeon at Stellenbosch University's Faculty of Medicine and Health Sciences, set out to help protect women from the risk of developing osteoporosis due to cancer treatment. Baatjes is studying a group of post-menopausal women with breast cancer who are receiving a certain type of treatment, aromatase inhibitors, in order to identify those with a high risk of developing 
osteoporosis. Aromatase inhibitors are used to treat oestrogen-sensitive breast cancer and prevent the body from producing oestrogen, thereby preventing the cancer from growing. A side effect of aromatase inhibitors is that they can decrease bone density. “The long-term survival of breast cancer patients is often very good, but we don't want them to suffer crippling side effects that decrease their quality of life. We want to optimise both the length and quality of these women's lives. “The ideal would be to try to identify the high-risk patients at the start of therapy and either change the drug or implement interventions to prevent a decrease in bone density. We have to understand not only the disease, but also the effects of treatment on our patients.” Meanwhile, civic organisations have encouraged people around the world to fight cancer by leading healthier lifestyles, with the campaign “We can. I can”. They aim to raise the profile of cancer in a positive and inspiring way. Elize Joubert, the Cancer Association of SA's (Cansa) chief executive officer, said: “We recognise the vital role that schools, libraries, health clinics, service groups, sports clubs and education professionals play in promoting and educating the next generation about their health and 
well-being. “World Cancer Day is an opportunity for teachers, students, health practitioners and parents to learn more, raise awareness, take action and engage in this important health issue. We invite communities across the world to support the forward progress in the fight against cancer.” Cansa said the disease could be prevented by addressing risk factors such as smoking, drinking, unhealthy diet, physical inactivity and exposure to environmental and cancer-causing infections. Cansa predicts that cancer deaths will increase from 8.8 million to 13 million in 2030. The latest Statistics SA figures show an increase in deaths from cancer from 5.6% in 2006 to 9.1% in 2015.  nicola.daniels@inl.co.za 