The embattled De Lille’s woes worsened after her party laid corruption and bribery charges against her at a Cape Town police station at the 
weekend. According to reports, De Lille allegedly sought the money in exchange for her endorsement of the businessman’s venture to provide fire extinguishers to informal settlements in the City. This move came after the DA’s failed attempt to remove De Lille via an unprecedented decision to support an ANC motion of no confidence in the mayor last week. That motion of no confidence was withdrawn at the 11th hour by the opposition party in the city council. The criminal charges came as the City’s Speaker, Dirk Smit, confirmed a special meeting would be convened on February15 to debate a DA motion of no confidence in de Lille. Asked whether the latest move was yet another attempt to ensure De Lille’s removal, DA federal executive chairperson James Selfe said yesterday: “When this sort of publicity is generated, lots of people who historically have issues come forward with these issues. “So it is not part of any plan of ours. Once we had this information we had to deal with it. “We didn’t ask for it (the affidavit). This particular allegation came out of the blue. “We have no way of knowing whether it is true or not. But we do have the responsibility to deal with it because it is a sworn affidavit and we have to deal with it.” He said the party provided the “unsolicited” affidavit to De Lille’s attorney and then informed the police. “I didn’t know how serious they (the allegations) are. “We have no capacity to investigate the allegations, which is why we had drawn them to the attention of the police. That is our legal obligation. It is up to the police to decide whether or not this is a serious charge,” said Selfe. He said a charge sheet has been concluded relating to the DA’s investigation into alleged misconduct by De Lille. The federal legal commission is now deciding on a suitable date to hold the hearings, he added. Selfe said they wanted to deal with the “side issues” facing the party in the city as quickly as possible so that they could focus on how to defeat Day Zero.Yesterday, De Lille fired back at the criminal charges, saying the concerted efforts to damage her reputation and the “haste to get rid” of her had reached “desperate heights”. She also questioned the timing of the move, asking why “this man, Anthony Faul,  is conveniently coming forward now when the DA is charging me for other matters”. “Firstly, why did he go to the DA first instead of going to the police? Why did he wait almost five years to make these allegations? This seems to be the latest of a string of moves to taint my name, by clutching at anything and informing the media before allegations are properly tested.” De Lille said she denied and rejected the reported allegations with the contempt they deserved. She said she had not been formally notified of these charges by the police and that she would co-operate openly and transparently with the SAPS should criminal charges be laid against her. “I have repeatedly asked for a fair process, yet the handling of this matter and the treatment towards me are clearly attempts to sway public perception against me instead of giving me a fair opportunity to state my case and to test the allegations properly.” Police spokesperson André Traut said a case of bribery and corruption had been reported at Cape Town Central on Friday by a 31-year-old man.