Scenes of jubilation erupted at the Civic Centre during a special council meeting on Thursday as some DA councillors shook hands and hugged members of the opposition after yet another failed attempt to oust De Lille. It took only one vote to save De Lille’s political career, which was shaped by exposing corruption in the country, including the arms deal. A total of 110 councillors voted against the motion tabled by DA councillor Malusi Booi, while 109 voted in favour. DA councillor and Mayco member for Area Central Siyabulela Mamkeli said he was among those who voted against the motion. “I am really happy with the outcome of the meeting today. I do believe that justice was done. "The outcome has showed the will of the people irrespective of the concerns that we had in terms of the open ballot. “There were threats with regard to the open ballot. "I am the one who cautioned James Selfe (federal executive chairperson) when this whole thing started that I expect all processes to be credible.” He said the DA “flouted” its own due processes. “Injustice was being done and Patricia de Lille has been treated unfairly. "This in the interest of the people of the Cape Town,” 
Mamkeli added. De Lille had walked out of the meeting after Speaker Dirk Smit announced the voting would be conducted by an open ballot, charging she would not participate in an unlawful act. De Lille claimed victory on Wednesday after the Western Cape High Court noted she was fully justified in bringing the application to court to demand a free vote. Reacting to the council decision, De Lille said: “It took an enormous amount of bravery by the DA councillors who supported me today. "I thank them for their courage and for voting with conviction today. “I also thank the opposition parties for seeing beyond party lines and voting on a matter of principle. "I am extremely grateful for the support from all corners of society and I am even more honoured to serve the people of Cape Town. “The motion before council today arose from the fact that I was already found guilty on untested allegations. Despite relentless efforts to get rid of me, the vote today shows that the truth will always survive. I maintain that all allegations must be tested in an open and transparent process," she said. "In terms of the DA in the City, we have to find a way of uniting the DA caucus and unite the City, so we can continue our task to deliver services to the people of Cape Town. "I remain committed to working with all councillors and residents to continue making progress possible together and making this great city even greater." The ANC’s Xolani Sotashe said: “Black people in the DA will continue (to be) used. "The DA is about the white interest, not only white but the racist white liberals.” DA provincial leader Bonginkosi Madikizela said 75% of the DA caucus voted in favour of the motion. “This means she (De Lille) in effect is governing without a party mandate. "This is a serious undermining of the DA and the values, and electoral mandate we were given by the people of Cape Town. “This, then, brings into serious question whether it can be said that the mayor has the mandate of the electorate which voted for the DA.”