She also demanded a secret vote. 
“I do not wish to avoid facing a motion of no confidence, but I am seeking the assurance that it will proceed in a constitutional and fair manner, especially considering that I have not been treated fairly by the DA throughout this process,” De Lille said last night. “Furthermore, I have applied to interdict the DA’s federal and provincial office-bearers from influencing or instructing members of the DA caucus on how to vote in the motion. "Their behaviour until this juncture has proven that they will not hesitate to politically manipulate the caucus for their own factional gains.” In addition, she said, clause 3.5.1.12 of the DA’s federal constitution prohibits any member of any legislative body to vote in a motion of no confidence without the approval of the federal executive. “I have also asked the court to declare this clause unconstitutional and invalid, as it is inconsistent with the constitution as well as the 
Municipal Structures Act. "The issues are very similar to that considered by the Constitutional Court in the matter of 
United Democratic Movement (UDM) v Speaker, National Assembly and Others 2017 (5) SA 300 (CC). Ironically in that matter, the DA fought alongside the UDM for a secret vote,” added De Lille. She said the DA was now adamant to deprive their own DA caucus members of the right to vote according to their conscience and by secret ballot. DA federal executive chairperson James Selfe has described De Lille’s urgent application as puzzling at best and “vexatious at worst”. “It is important to dispel a number of inaccuracies in the mayor’s statement. Insofar as the free vote is concerned, the DA is a party which respects and upholds the constitution. "In the interest of the rule of law, we have not instructed councillors to vote in any particular way as per the Constitutional Court’s judgment in United Democratic Movement (UDM) v Speaker, National Assembly and Others 2017, in particular, how this applies to municipal councils. "Insofar as the secret ballot is concerned, this is a decision to be taken by the council and not the DA. Their voting is done either by a show of hands, electronic voting or any other method decided by council.” Opposition parties in the city council said they've not had the opportunity to test charges being proferred against Lille by the DA, and therefore it would be unfair if they voted for a motion of no confidence in her. Cope councillor Farouk Cassim wrote in an open letter that without opposition parties in council hearing De Lille’s side of the story, they would be acting prejudicially and unfairly if they voted for a motion of no confidence in her. ACDP leader in the City Grant Haskin said they agreed partially with Cassim’s sentiments. “Only when the Bowman’s investigation and City disciplinary process is complete, and only if she is found guilty, will we vote to remove her,” Haskin said. ANC chief whip Noluthando Makasi said its party councillors would meet on Monday so she could not comment on Cassim’s appeal at this stage. Speaker Dirk Smit did not respond to questions yesterday.