She spoke during the opening session of the third annual BRICS Network University (NU) conference at Stellenbosch University yesterday. Over three days about 158 delegates from these five countries, representing 36 universities and 11 other higher education institutions, will hold workshops under the theme “Unlocking BRICS Universities’ Partnerships: Postgraduate Education Opportunities and Challenges”. The conference aims to develop and consolidate the BRICS education agenda. It has six thematic areas: energy; computer science and information security; ecology and climate change; economics; water resources and pollution treatment; and BRICS studies. Pandor said BRICS NU could be a driving force for building a closely knit BRICS intellectual community. Her message to delegates as they prepared for the workshops was to think critically about practical action. “BRICS is about action. It was not established as talkshops but to use the various attributes of each of the five countries, draw on each others’ strengths, and address each others’ weaknesses to bring our combined influence to bear in changing the world.” She said BRICS NU could foster new dynamics in South-South co-operation while forging intellectual bonds and exchanges among the BRICS academic community. The conference will also explore the possibilities of leveraging the co-operative force of BRICS UN to enhance scientific knowledge. The objective was to provide a platform for BRICS countries, particularly the international thematic groups (ITGs), to share research experiences and country-specific insights. “I hope that our universities will take full advantage of this initiative and seek opportunities to collaborate in terms of research, and in doing so learn as much as possible from one another. I hope universities will come up with collaborative projects that will benefit not only BRICS but the developing world as a whole.” The minister will host the BRICS ministers of education on July 10.  dominic.adriaanse@inl.co.za 