This comes as more than 100 suspects are awaiting trial  - the latest being 11 suspects arrested for cable theft, tampering, trespassing and attempted theft in places like Stellenbosch, Mutual/Thornton, Nyanga and Philippi last week. Metrorail regional manager Richard Walker said there was a positive downward trend in reported incidents against previous double-digit overnight incidents. “Catching would-be criminals have become routine for Metrorail’s multi-functional security teams. Their daily arrests begin to slow the incidences of vandalism and cable theft. Additional security measures and forensic capability were starting to pay off as more suspects were found guilty of attempted theft in the Bishop Lavis Magistrate's Court,” Walker said. Of the three offenders, one received six years, another three years (suspended for five years) and the third three years in jail. During the first week of June Metrorail reported 73 suspects had been arrested. The largest haul of arrests - 60 - was made in one day during a joint operation conducted by Metrorail Protection Services, Transnet Freight Rail Security and the Woodstock SAPS. The Passenger Rail Agency of SA (Prasa) successfully opposed bail in many applications and the first successful conviction, with a 15-year jail sentence, was for cable thief Fortune Nkomo. Walker said the tally of offenders in custody awaiting trial exceeded 100. He attributed the many successes due to tip-offs. “It shows that vigilant and civic-minded communities can positively impact crime in their neighbourhoods. We thank communities and individuals who assist the crime-combating teams by reporting criminal activity.” Mayco member for safety and security JP Smith said the City’s Metal Theft Unit, also known as “Copperheads”, made 36 arrests. Some 29 475.22kg of metal was recovered, with 99 notices to appear in court in the first quarter of 2018. “The City’s Metal Theft Unit conducted a number of autonomous operations, inspecting scrap yards and bucket shops. “The unit also conducted numerous joint operations with the South African Police Service and the Passenger Rail Agency of South Africa in Milnerton, Bonteheuwel, Kalksteenfontein, Heideveld, Bishop Lavis and Netreg. “Last year during the same period 11 arrests were made, 61 notices issued to appear in court and 64m of copper cable was 
confiscated,” he said.