They say developments on the land will threaten the livelihoods of emerging farmers, their workers and local food security, and place a 630km² aquifer in jeopardy. Activists representing the PHA Campaign yesterday presented their comments on the province’s Indego Study into the importance of the farmland to the provincial agricultural standing committee. Following the presentation, the chairperson of the committee, Beverley Schäfer, released a statement: “The City and the Western Cape government’s declaration that the PHA will be protected as a Critical Natural Area, as outlined in the updated Municipal Spatial Development Framework (MSDF), is a victory for the DA in the province and the Philippi agricultural community.” Schäfer said the updated MSDF, approved by the City in April, would automatically zone the PHA as a Critical Natural Area and prevent any further development on the unique agricultural land. But the campaign hit back, saying it was in fact the province and City that had previously given the go-ahead for multiple developments on the land. Campaigners are challenging the granting of permission for developments in the area, including a sand mine. Two large developments have been on the cards, with widespread opposition to a planned 472.36 hectare development called Oakland City. Schäfer said should the proposed UVEST and Oaklands/Rapicorp development in the PHA be found to be unlawful, the allocated land would automatically be designated as a Critical Natural Area, and thus protected. Susanna Coleman, of the PHA Food and Farming Campaign, said the group had been fighting against development in the area for eight years, and the department was only protecting 1879ha of the PHA’s 3200ha, ceding one-third of the area to developers. “Both the agricultural and heritage protections cover the full extent of the PHA. They (the government) just hacked that (land) off wherever it fitted developers’ proposals and removed the urban edge to allow the provincial department to manoeuvre (the granting of permission for developments),” Coleman said. She said the campaign would take the MSDF on review. Schäfer said while the campaign wanted the entire PHA to be a protected area as it was designated in the 1988 MSDF, this was impossible. “We cannot reverse decisions made in the past which were in line with the available MSDF at the time. What we can do, and what we have done, is alert government to amend the MSDF to protect what is left of the PHA moving forward. “My committee acted swiftly in this regard. It is unfortunate that PHA activists label this as electioneering when my committee unanimously, and from all parties, voted for this process to be undertaken. We remain committed to protecting the PHA as best we can moving forward.”