Johannesburg - Former president Jacob Zuma’s son, Vusi Nhlakanipho Zuma, died from complications of systematic lupus erythematosus, known as lupus said family spokesperson Linda Makatini. Vusi (25) was born to Zuma’s late wife Kate Mantsho, who committed suicide in 2000 when Vusi was eight years old. He was the youngest of five children and his siblings include well-known Zuma twins Duduzane and Duduzile Zuma. Makatini said an intimate memorial service between close family and friends for the young Zuma will be held on Thursday. The funeral service would then take place on Saturday at 9am at the Rhema Recreational Centre in Randburg and he will thereafter be buried at West Park Cemetery. Makatini said the family were gathering daily for prayer. "We continue to gather together for support and prayers between 6pm-7pm at home in Forest Town‚" she said. The Zuma family also conveyed their gratitude for the messages of condolences and support since the news of Vusi Zuma’s death on Sunday night. "The Zuma family would like to express its heartfelt gratitude for the warm messages of support extended to it by the nation both in private and public. Your messages have brought us much-needed comfort during this difficult time of grief‚" they said. American civil rights activist Reverend Jesse Jackson was among the first who sent their condolences to the Zuma family. "Sending prayers for and condolences to former South African president Jacob Zuma and family on the loss of their son‚ Vusi Nhlakanipho Zuma. RIP‚" Jackson tweeted. Other’s who sent tributes and messages to the family, included former Public Protector Thuli Madonsela, EFF leader Julius Malema and former aide of the late Nelson Mandela, Zelda la Grange. Lupus is a systemic autoimmune disease that occurs when your body's immune system attacks your own tissues and organs. Inflammation caused by lupus can affect many different body systems including your joints, skin, kidneys, blood cells, brain, heart and lungs. Politics Hub