Johannesburg - Retired high court Judge Kathleen Satchwell has been named the chairperson of the inquiry established to probe sexual harassment claims against former Equal Education Treasurer Doron Isaacs. Satchwell's appointment comes two months after the organisation's National Council (NC) established an inquiry to investigate the claims as well as a 2011 investigation into his conduct that had cleared him of wrongdoing.. Isaacs resigned on 18 May both as treasurer of Equal Education as well as a member of the organisation. This came after the organisation requested that he be suspended amid sexual harassment allegations levelled against him and that an independent panel be established to probe the claims. EE in a statement confirmed the establishment of the inquiry on May 22, adding that law firm Cheadle Thompson and Haysom had been tasked with acting as an independent liaison with experienced external counsel, and to brief counsel on the drafting of terms of reference for the panel. These were approved by the EE NC on 14 June. "The establishment of this inquiry will afford complainants an opportunity to voice any complaints they may have against Isaacs. "The inquiry will look into issues relating to sexual harassment and/or similar misconduct," EE said in a statement. The selected panelists are: * Kathie Satchwell, a retired Judge of the High Court of South Africa, who will be the chairperson of the inquiry. * Dr Malose Langa, an academic at Wits University. * Professor Rashida Manjoo, who is based at the UCT law faculty. The panel will convene in Cape Town at the offices of Cheadle Thompson and Haysom from 10am to 3pm on the following dates: 25 - 27 July 9 - 10 August 20 - 23 August The panel will also convene on further dates, if necessary, to undertake this process. During these sittings, complainants will have access to counselling services, if requested, EE confirmed. Complainants are encouraged to make contact with Shamima Gaibie or Tamryn van Wyk from Cheadle Thompson and Haysom, telephonically at 011  403 2765, or in writing via the email address equaleducation@cth.co.za Cheadle Thompson and Haysom will be also available to assist complainants, if they request, in preparing a written submission to the panel. IOL