Police spokesperson Andre Traut said a murder case was being investigated and no arrests had been made. He said the motive for the shooting was unknown. A relative, who asked not to be named, said the 18-year-old girlfriend didn't see the killer as he had a helmet on, covering his face. “Their child was born with a cleft lip and palate, and since her birth, her daddy has never missed any of her clinic or hospital appointments. Someone close to the family knew this and gave the shooter the information. He (the victim) had the child on his lap. His daughter and girlfriend meant everything to him,” said the relative. The killing has prompted residents to march through the area's streets tomorrow against the spike in killings. There were no CCTV cameras installed at Eastridge Clinic to help identify the killer, said Mayco member for safety and security JP Smith. “We do not routinely search all clients entering Eastridge Clinic. One security guard is on duty. We do not allow clients to enter the facility with a firearm. We have signage up indicating that firearms are not allowed in the clinic,” said Smith. He said the national Health Department's Ideal Clinic Framework for Primary Healthcare Facilities required that clinics have a dedicated security guard on site or an alarm system installed that is linked to armed response. “In terms of the Eastridge Clinic, the facility has both a security guard stationed on site during operating hours, and staff have panic buttons linked to the City's Law Enforcement Rapid Response Unit.” Community Policing Forum chairperson Abie Isaacs said crime in Mitchells Plain was “out of proportion”, as they had noted a spike in firearm-related murders. Meanwhile, the police said the execution of search warrants for wanted suspects, high-density patrols and visible policing, as well as stop-and-search activities, had resulted in 658 people being apprehended in Mitchells Plain between July 6 and July 12. Police also confiscated nine illegal and unlicensed firearms. This came after the killing of three men at an intersection in Lentegeur, Mitchells Plain, on Thursday. On Friday, a 28-year-old man was killed in a suspected gang-related shooting. Police said three unidentified men walked past the victim and all drew firearms, and shot at him several times. The 28-year-old ran into a nearby house, where he collapsed and died. Police were also investigating an attempted murder, after a fruit and vegetable stall holder was shot and wounded at Town Centre on Saturday. Anyone with information about these incidents can anonymously contact Crime Stop on 0860010111 or SMS Crime Line on 32211. Cape Times