Ordinary South Africans, organisations, the government and civil society will dedicate 67 minutes to helping those in need as the world honours Nelson Mandela’s centenary. Plenty of Mandela Day initiatives have been planned for around the province. Mayor Patricia de Lille will join ward councillor Beverley van Reenen in Uitsig on Wednesday to help set up a new library at Uitsig Primary. De Lille and her team will spend 67 minutes painting a container recently donated for use as a library. Desmond and Leah Tutu Legacy Foundation staff will, between 10am and 1pm, treat 90 cleaning staff at Red Cross Children’s Hospital to a high tea. At SOS Children’s Village, between 10am and 11.30am, high tea will be served to mothers and caregivers, while a group of Youth@Work participants tidy the garden. SANParks, in collaboration with the Knysna Animal Welfare Society, will paint the quarantine area, which is in desperate need of refurbishment. The area is demarcated for strays, surrendered and injured animals. Community Chest will honour Madiba’s legacy by championing his call for education. This years also marks the 90th anniversary of the Community Chest, and corporates and the public have been invited to donate children’s books to build the Bree Street Mandela Day Book Mountain. To donate a book call Thandi Makili on 021 487 1500. At Stellenbosch University  there will be a drive to collect comfort packs and food items for students; a colloquium themed After Mandela with panelists from, among others Harvard;  and  Herbie Tsoaeli and his African Time Quartet will pay tribute to Peter Mayekiso and Samson Msemme, residents of Kayamandi, Stellenbosch, who were amongst the first political prisoners to be taken to Robben Island were they both served time for political activities. The University of the Western Cape’s Faculty of Community and Health Sciences will educate the public and offer services to address the healthcare needs of the Fisantekraal community at Fisantekraal Multi-Purpose Community Centre, Durbanville. The institution’s Law Clinic will provide free legal advice to members of the public on campus.