Community group Let’s Help Each Other said at the tail-end of the march on Sunday, gunshots were heard. A member of the group, who did not want to be named, said they would not be deterred in their cause to feel safe in their community again. “We have a community meeting scheduled for tomorrow evening with various safety and security directorates, as well as the judicial system. Hearing gunshots ring out just as our march concluded only amplified our call for safety in our community. “We are looking forward to a productive meeting with the various agencies and will strive to unite our cause for the safety of residents. “We have invited the various authorities, so that each of them can explain what they are responsible for so the issue of safety cannot be kicked around like a political football.” The Ocean View resident said division in neighbourhoods and communities also needed to be addressed. “We need to work together to fight this scourge. We shouldn’t see divisions and should also see the government as an entity that should come on board (and) that can help tackle this problem. “We definitely also need the help and camaraderie of our neighbours without residents acting together, we fight a losing battle. That’s why we invite residents to come in their numbers to participate in this meeting.” A memorandum listing the community’s demands was handed over to the station commander of Ocean View police station on Sunday and was expected to respond to these demands at the meeting tomorrow night. “There are street lights that are still not working, someone is killed on a weekly, if not daily, basis and the majority of residents who use public transport are too scared to leave for work early in the mornings, or come home late at night due to these unsafe circumstances. “The children are too scared to play outside, the constant echoes of gunshots is becoming the norm in our community and that is unacceptable. “The lack of safety and security measures within our community is becoming a living nightmare, however with the proper resources and assistance from SAPS, City of Cape Town, ward councillors, CPF and national government this situation can be turned around,” the memorandum read.  chevon.booysen@inl.co.za 