 Singh's Mandela documentary collection will also be broadcast. These include Beyond Long Walk To Freedom, Countdown To Freedom, Prisoners Of Hope, A Hero For All, Viva Madiba and the film produced for the Mandela centenary, Celebrating Mandela One Hundred. The Mandela: Long Walk To Freedom mini-series stars multiple award-winning actor, Idris Elba; award-winning actresses Naomie Harris and Terry Pheto; Tony Kgoroge; Riaad Moosa; Lindiwe Matshikiza; Atandwa Kani; Jamie Bartlett and Deon Lotz, and is produced by Singh. It tells the Madiba story in a more detailed manner – his childhood; adapting to life in the big city of Johannesburg; becoming politicised, then incarcerated for almost three decades and ultimately becoming president of a democratic South Africa. It is an inspirational story of struggle, sacrifice, hope and triumph, and serves to broaden and deepen knowledge about Madiba and his lifelong commitment to freedom and democracy in South Africa. Commenting on the mini-series, Singh said, “During the production, we shot an enormous amount of footage that was not used in the feature film and decided to create the mini-series. We are very pleased that this enables us to tell the complete Madiba story as it includes scenes of his childhood in the Transkei; being sent to live with the Tembu Regent, Jongintaba; his move to Johannesburg and experiencing the vibrance of Sophiatown and its destruction, and his internship with the Johannesburg law firm, Witkin, Sidelsky and Eidelman and many other watershed moments in his life.” The documentary collection covers the period shortly before South Africa’s first democratic elections to Mandela's passing in December 2013. These include:   Singh added, “I am fortunate to have had unprecedented access to events with Madiba after his release from prison, and to record historic events for posterity through the production of these films which remind us of Madiba’s legacy and his selfless leadership. We are delighted to have partnered with DStv to broadcast them as part of the Mandela centenary celebrations.” Yolisa Phahle, General Entertainment CEO of MultiChoice said: “This is a very special five-day pop-up channel to honour and celebrate the extraordinary life and legacy of the global icon Nelson Mandela; a man whose life-long commitment to justice and freedom shaped the world. We pride ourselves in only acquiring the very best content and couldn’t have asked for a better line-up. The Mandela 100 pop-up channel can be found at channel 199 on the DStv bouquet. The Independent on Saturday