The choir was started in 2012 by the Cape Cultural Collective (CCC), which promotes social change in communities through musical projects and delivers material in English, Afrikaans and Xhosa. As part of the event, funds were raised for the child protection organisation, Molo Songololo. About R20 000 was raised from the packed event on Saturday. Sampson and the Rosa Choir performed her memorable track My African Dream to a standing ovation and were supported by various artists performing in Xhosa, Afrikaans and English. Performances included the senior choir from the Vulamathuba Social Housing organisation. Sampson said that she has a relationship with the organisers of the CCC, that stretches as far back as the 1980s. “It was a huge honour to take part in this event especially now, as we celebrate the centenary of Nelson Mandela and Albertina Sisulu. “Having performed the song many times, usually with a backtrack, having a live 40-member choir behind you just makes the song richer. The young Aziza Davids who sang the bridge with me in Afrikaans added to the song and I am hoping to perform at more events and incorporate this with my other songs,” said Sampson. She said that she was especially proud of being able to help raise funds for Molo Songololo, which she had worked with in earlier years. This was the third entry of the six-part “Community Voices For Human Rights” series 2018, which is sponsored by the Foundation for Human Rights and organised by the CCC. Molo Songololo director Patric Solomons hailed the event as a success, and said he could not express enough gratitude towards Sampson and the Collective. “We advocate for protection and providing services and assistance for children (and) their families from poor communities. We are grateful for the turnout as we depend on the public to assist us, so that we are able to aid the young and their families in our communities,” he said. Solomons said the organisation welcomed any contribution from the public and urged them to get involved by donating their time and volunteering. The Collective’s Kay Jaffer said that the next concert in the series would focus on the children’s choir, which consists of youngsters aged eight to 14. She said the next venue was yet to be determined and they would require assistance for the event, as well as a camp that would be aimed towards social cohesion among the diverse group of children.  For more information about the Cape Cultural Collective and Molo Songololo visit their websites: capeculturalcollective.org.za or www.molosongololo.org or go to their Facebook pages.   dominic.adriaanse@inl.co.za 