I started my career at the Cape Times and I am ending my career still printing the Cape Times. I started my five-year apprenticeship as a Letterpress Rotary Web Offset Machine minder at The Cape Times in 1974. The printing press was in Burg Street, Cape Town. The printing process goes back to the days when hot metal printing using melted lead was used to mould the printing plates to fit on to the printing presses. There were many people involved in the process of making up the newspaper until it finally got printed and went to the point of sales at news agents, cafés, street sellers. The editorial staff would do their stories for the next day’s paper and the lino type operator’s would type out the stories in lead which would be placed in a chase by compositors who would space out the type to fit in columns and place a picture which was cast in lead in the chase. Once the page was completely set up, it was placed in a moulding press with a printing mat over it and the complete page would be moulded into the printing mat. The printing mat would be sent to the stereo type department to be cast in lead to fit on to the printing press. The printing press would feed paper through printing units where printing blankets and the plates would be applied with ink to be printed. There was no full-colour printing in the paper, but we used a single spot colour for the paper’s name or a spot colour advertisement. The printing presses could print up to 40 000 copies of the newspaper in an hour. In 1975, with new technologies in computers, the printing processes changed to the lithographic printing process where the use of full-colour pictures and full-colour advertisements could be used in every newspaper. The Cape Times installed a new litho printing press at their factory in Paarden Island. The process of producing and printing a newspaper was so much faster due to computer technology, The new litho printing process involved using very thin aluminium printing plates which when received from the editorial department, a page for the paper was photographed and a negative image was made of the page, like the old Kodak days when one had photographs developed and you would get a negative to keep if you needed more prints of a specific photo. Those same negatives applied to a full newspaper page which was sent to the plate room. Using ultraviolet light the image of the page would be burned into the thin aluminium plate. For every page in the newspaper in full colour, a printing plate had to be made for the four process colours that make up a full colour image. A cyan, magenta, yellow and black printing plate would be made and sent to the machine room where the plates were fitted on to the press to print. On the printing press the huge reels of white paper would be fed through the press where the printing plate image would rotate against a printing blanket and the image would be inked up on to the paper. The very big, noisy printing presses can print at very high speeds, producing 45 000 copies an hour of a complete newspaper collated and folded. The next generation of technology to make plates came when computer to plate was introduced, where instead of using negatives of the plates to impose the image of the page on to a plate, the use of laser technology is used whereby the image is burned into the printing plate. The same process applies for every page using four-colour plates to produce a full-colour page of a newspaper. Computer technology has revolutionised the printing of newspapers and the way news is assimilated and reported. The newspaper industry worldwide is going through challenging times due to the technologies of computers, the internet, smartphones, as news is available at a click of a button and is available instantaneously. I have many memorable front page news headlines in the newspapers that I printed while on duty at night. I will share a few which come to mind: The invasion of the Falkland Island’s by Argentina which led to a war between Great Britain and Argentina. The tragic death of Diana, the Princess Of Wales, in a car accident. The World Trade Centre in New York being flown into by aircraft. The invasion of Iraq by the US. The capture of Saddam Hussein. The gang drug lord Staggie’s brother killed by Pagad. The unbanning of the ANC and all banned political parties. The political unrest in Cape Town - outside Newspaper House people being sprayed with purple dye - the headlines “The purple shall govern”. The release of Nelson Mandela from prison. The 1994 elections Nelson Mandela being inaugurated as president of South Africa. Nelson Mandela passing away. I was on duty that night changing the front pages of the The Argus and Daily Voice and adding a wrap-around to the Cape Times. On the sports pages. The Hansie Cronje cricket betting scandal. The Proteas losing a World Cup match to New Zealand. South Africa winning the Rugby Word Rugby cup at home in 1995. South Africa hosting the soccer World Cup. And many, many more that I will need more space than I have to mention. A few years ago at Newspaper House a fire broke out in the building while we were printing the Cape Times. The printers continued printing the Cape Times even as smoke came pouring into the press hall through the air-conducting shafts and water came seeping through the ceilings above the presses as the Fire Department put out the fire. The front page of the Cape Times was changed by the editorial staff to reflect a burning copy of paper, and it looked as if the front page was burned. In 1986 the Cape Times amalgamated with the Argus Group and the printing of Cape Town’s English morning and afternoon newspapers was done at Newspaper House in Cape Town. In 2011 the printing and production process was outsourced to CTP newspapers printing plant in Parow. As of July 30, 2018 the printing of all Independent Newspapers titles, The Cape Times, The Argus and 15 community papers will be printed at Novus Holdings printing plant in Montague Gardens. I have worked in a supervisory capacity as a foreman and supervisor for 26 years at the Cape Argus at Newspaper House and CTP Newspapers in Parow, making sure production deadlines are met and planning production times and quality checks, ensuring the maintenance of the printing presses are scheduled and making sure health and safety rules are applied and followed. Managing all the staff in my printing department and reporting to the production and works Manager Chris Robson, who is an exceptionally good leader and manager and a friend who I have had the privilege to work with for 32 years. I have many work colleagues to thank for guiding me throughout my career. Too many to mention by name. I thank my wife Elizabeth of 40 years for putting up with me being at work every night and on weekends, and who has been an inspiration in my life. I look forward to spending time with my children, Tracy, Vanessa and Gary and their spouses and my granddaughter Emily, who calls me a nocturnal oupa as I only work at night and sleep during the day. On the last night of my working career, July 27, there was a Lunar eclipse which will be the longest of this century. A good omen for me to have a long and happy and healthy retirement. See you on the dark side of the moon. I wish the Cape Times many more years of success in telling the news as it happens . Thanking You McGowan is former press room supervisor for CTP Newspapers