The Commission for Conciliation, Mediation and Arbitration (CCMA) has offered to intervene in attempts to end the dispute in the footwear sector strike, which enters its 16th day today. This is according to a joint statement from the National Union of Leather and Allied Workers Union (Nulaw) and Southern African Clothing and Textile Workers Union (Sactwu). Wage negotiations between the unions and the Southern African Footwear and Leather Industry Association (Saflia) had deadlocked, resulting in workers striking after their 9% wage increase demand had been rejected by the employers, who had offered 6.25%. Nulaw general secretary Ashley Benjamin and Sactwu general secretary Andre’ Kriel said their unions had received formal communication from the CCMA regarding its offer to intervene in terms of Section 150 of the Labour Relations Act. The unions said they have always insisted that a strike was not their first choice and that all they wanted was for their members to be granted a “decent wage increase in pursuit of their living wage demands”. “We are not oblivious to the challenges and pressures which the domestic footwear industry is experiencing. However, it is our considered opinion that our hard-working members do not deserve the 6.25% final offer increase which has been tabled, and which they have increased slightly to 7% on Tuesday this week. “Our members have firmly rejected the employers’ revised 7% wage increase,” said the unions. “We welcome the offer from the CCMA and commit to act constructively in this envisaged CCMA-led conciliation process should Saflia agree to take part. We now await a formal response from the employers (who are represented by Saflia), to the CCMA’s assistance offer. “In the interim, our strike remains strong and united and we vow to continue it until such time as footwear employers offer our members a decent wage increase for 2018.” Saflia chairperson Noel Whitehead said: “We gladly accepted their offer. Unfortunately tomorrow (Friday) will not be possible because our lawyer and other representatives... are otherwise occupied. We suggested Monday morning as an alternative.”