The family of the UCT health sciences dean said in a statement that Mayosi had for the past two years been battling depression, and ended his own life on Friday. Last year, a research team led by Mayosi made what had been described as the “biggest breakthrough in South African cardiology since Dr Chris Barnard’s first heart transplant”, identifying a gene that is a major cause of sudden death by heart failure among young people and athletes. His A-rating from the National Research Foundation put him among leading international researchers. In 2017 he was elected to the US National Academy of Medicine, one of the highest honours in health and medicine. Mayosi was also honoured with the Order of Mapungubwe in Silver, South Africa’s highest honour. “We want to take this moment, his passing, as an opportunity to reflect,” a visibly emotional Phakeng said yesterday. “We know that the protests of 2016 and 2017 were not kind to him as dean. His office was occupied in 2016. There was a time when students were angry with him, they called him names, they called him a coconut, a sell-out in anger, and that was hurtful. Mayosi experienced pressure, at some stages from staff and students, black students. He had to manage all of that.” Phakeng said she had been meeting with staff suffering from post-traumatic stress disorder. “We have seen a rise in mental health issues not only with students, but staff. We’ve been meeting with staff some whose classes were disrupted in a particular way that scared them so much that they become dysfunctional. “I’m not saying the protests were wrong. When we pursue our own struggles, we should always be conscious of the fact that we are dealing with human beings. “We pursue our struggles not to destroy people, but to destroy systems of oppression. Conflict will happen, but it is not supposed to be destructive, it’s supposed to build us so we move to the future stronger than before,” she said. Phakeng said Mayosi was an inspiration to all students. “For black students he represented black excellence. Not just that you can do it, but you can be the best in the world in what you do. He was that message walking around on campus,” Phakeng said. In 2017, Mayosi went on leave for three months, and after returning, collapsed in his office. He then wrote to former vice- chancellor Max Price asking to resign from his position, Phakeng revealed. “It is a pity that we as an institution did not listen to him then, we should have,” she said. “We have a lot of people in the university and they are hurting. We have some who have experienced heart attacks, they have survived and they are still here with us. “Mayosi’s passing is an opportunity for us Rather than turn on one another, we have to turn on those who make the situation worse. There are racists in our midst who need to be dealt with, there are black people in our midst who terrorise our own, and they need to be dealt with,” she said. Tributes have poured in from around the world from shocked colleagues, staff, students and others. President Cyril Ramaphosa said Mayosi’s death was an enormous loss for his family and the country. “On behalf of government and South Africans as a whole we convey our most heartfelt condolences to his family, friends and relatives, and the health sciences fraternity,” he said. Health Minister Aaron Motsoaledi described Mayosi as a transformational leader and change agent who had great dreams for public healthcare. “The only legacy that will preserve Professor Mayosi’s memory with us is to keep focused on his dreams and work tirelessly in our respective fields of the health profession to transform it.” UCT’s SRC said in a statement: “Rest easy, Professor Bongani Mayosi. Your contribution to the lives of students does not go without acknowledgement and admiration. As the university grieves, your legacy will be embodied by those who crossed your path.” Mayosi is survived by his widow, Professor Nonhlanhla Khumalo, and daughters S’vuyile and Camagu. * The South African Depression and Anxiety Group provides free counselling: 0800 21 22 23, www.sadag.org.