The journey, aimed at uniting African men against gender-based violence, will take him about 10 years. Molosankwe's "Moral Regeneration Walk” comes after his Cape Town to Mahikeng walk last year to get men to take responsibility for woman and child abuse. Turning a life of debauchery around, where substance abuse was followed by abuse of his partner, Molosankwe’s life took a turn for the better after the birth of his first child in 2014. His walk around the continent is dedicated to Struggle icons Albertina Sisulu and Nelson Mandela for their birth centenaries and to promote peace throughout Africa. “Women played their political role in the Struggle. They must never be forgotten. They played a major role not through their husbands but themselves, building democracy not as wives but as freedom fighters. "I wish for the community to learn that commitment is important in solving any problem. If I can commit to walking for 10 years, a community can commit to meeting once or twice a week, to look into the challenges they are facing,” said Molosankwe. He said Mandela had been an inspiration to him through his courage and commitment and that he wanted to live in an Africa that was abuse-free, where women were respected. Molosankwe said he had written to the provincial government of North West to see what can be done regarding his safety, as well as the Speaker of National Assembly, Baleka Mbete, to engage Minister of International Relations Lindiwe Sisulu regarding his safety abroad. Physically he has participated in marathons such as the Soweto Marathon, Om Die Dam, City to City and Two Oceans. “Since last year we have partnered with Bagaetsho Team NPO, based in Cape Town, when I walked nine provinces. They are pre-arranging my arrival and activities in different communities by engaging with other NGOs, churches, police stations and other community-based structures. "Regarding risks and dangerous areas, I have to interact with communities, engage with other activists and organisations in each country, to assist with avoiding any dangers,” he said. Molosankwe’s manager Mammy Mabe said through the Thato Molosankwe Charity Foundation they would reach out to civic organisations, religious leaders and authorities. “This is why we are writing to the national departments and the South African National Defence Force to liaise with their counterparts on the continent, as Thato’s safety is the most important thing. "He won’t be able to visit every African country, as some are islands, but he has prepared physically and spiritually for this journey,” said Mabe. She said people who want to know more about the walk can visit the foundation’s Facebook page or donate on their BackaBuddy page, Rounding Afrika Walk Against Abuse.  dominic.adriaanse@inl.co.za 