The kidnapping at his Parow business premises  yesterday by unknown suspects came a year after another prominent businessman, Sadeck Zhaun Ahmed, 71, of Zhauns Business Opportunity Machines, was kidnapped outside his business in Woodstock in July last year. Zhauns was released more than a month after the three assailants had threatened him with a firearm before driving away with him. Police spokesperson FC van Wyk said five unknown males kidnapped the 65-year-old Parker from his business premises in Stairway Close in De Greens yesterday morning. It is believed to be among a spate of similar kidnappings, but most families do not alert the public and instead pay up. Van Wyk said: “According to information, the victim was driving into the basement of his business premises in Stairway Close, De Greens, Parow, when an unknown double-cab LDV followed and at the gate forced the security guard at gunpoint into the toilet, where they took his cellphone and locked him up. They then continued into the basement, where they forced the businessman into their vehicle and drove off in an unknown direction,” he said. Van Wyk said cases of armed robbery and kidnapping were registered. Police appealed to the 
public to come forward with any information that could help them trace the suspects behind the alleged kidnapping of the Plattekloof businessman. Van Wyk said the motive was unknown. Parker’s family has requested time and space as they grapple with the ordeal, said family spokesperson Walid Brown, from the law firm Werksmans Attorneys. The Parkers will indicate when they are ready to release any statements or confirm what has already been reported, he said. Brown said that at the behest of family, he could not divulge too much information at this time. Parker is also a board member of Al Amien Foods and a non-executive board member of JSE-listed Brimstone Investment Corporation Limited. Brimstone Investment Corporation Limited managing executive Nisaar Pangarker said the company has yet to issue a statement. The Muslim Judicial Council has expressed their dismay at hearing that another prominent businessman was kidnapped and offered their thoughts and prayers to his family during what they described as a challenging time. Parker’s kidnapping came as authorities had launched a hunt for the suspects behind the kidnapping and hijacking of Passenger Rail Agency of South Africa (Prasa) board chairperson Khanyisile Kweyama. Prasa said Kweyama was pepper-sprayed and thrown into the boot of her car by unknown assailants in Houghton, Johannesburg, on Thursday. She was driven around for more than three hours before being dumped with the car in Katlehong, Ekurhuleni. The suspects made off with her  handbag, phones and two iPads. “The men told me they only needed money and tried to withdraw money from my card without success, and then simply abandoned me locked in the car. For people who spent three hours with me bemoaning their poverty and emphasising their need for money, it is strange that they eventually just left without that money,” said Kweyama. The Federation of Unions of South Africa has condemned the hijacking and kidnapping, said its general secretary, Dennis George, who hoped Kweyama would soon be back in office to continue her invaluable job of cleaning up the parastatal. Anyone with information on Parker’s kidnapping can anonymously contact the investigation officer, Detective Constable Chesron de Vries, on 082 493 8472 or Crime Stop on 08600 10111, alternatively SMS Crime Line on 32211.  dominic.adriaanse@inl.co.za 