Staff of the Kwik SPAR in Milnerton, the scene of a shootout between police and alleged robbers, are receiving trauma counselling after witnessing the ordeal that saw one suspect killed and an officer injured. The incident occurred around 6pm on Saturday. Police say eight armed suspects, one of which was a woman, had entered the store in Loxton Road in a brazen act to rob the retail chain store. Milnerton officers responded to the scene and while the suspects attempted to flee from the scene, their getaway car stalled and a shootout ensued. Store manager Sardie Matthews said this was the second time a robbery had occurred at the premises, but the first inside it. “There was an incident last year but this was outside of our store in the business centre. "On Saturday, there were staff and customers in the store as we close at 9pm. Our staff are now being provided with counselling and while we have security at the centre, our senior management are considering increasing security measures,” he said. A resident living across the road from the Kwik SPAR posted on Facebook: “OMG cops and robbers shooting at each other right opposite the flats where we stay in Loxton Road, Milnerton. Shot and killed one robber and apparently got the getaway car with money.” Police spokesperson FC Van Wyk said that vigilant Milnerton police responded to an incident on Saturday, arresting three suspects for business robbery, and possession of firearms and ammunition. “Eight suspects entered a chain store in Loxton Road, Milnerton, armed with handguns and threatened the staff and customers. Eyewitnesses saw what transpired and contacted the police, who responded immediately. “When the officers arrived at the scene, the suspects jumped into a getaway vehicle, but the car stalled and a shootout occurred between the police officers and the suspects, one of which was a woman,” said Van Wyk. “One of the suspects was fatally wounded and a police officer was shot in the shoulder. The police officers apprehended three suspects, two are aged 34 and the other 42 years old. Three handguns were confiscated,” he said. Van Wyk said that three suspects are still being sought. Police urge anyone with information about this incident to contact Milnerton police at 021 528 3017 or Crime Stop at 08600 10111.  dominic.adriaanse@inl.co.za 