As part of Mandela Day initiatives, Aan De Doorns Primary School’s classrooms and office were painted by the SA National Biodiversity Institute (Sanbi), which also donated indigenous plants for the garden. Principal Donovan Jacobs said the school was grateful for the time and effort made, which had also inspired pupils to go out and make a difference in the community. “We encourage pupils to make a difference to the lives of those around them, including the elderly. Sanbi taught in a practical way,” Jacobs said. The institute also donated a pot plant for the entrance to every classroom. “The pot plants are the responsibility of the pupils, and they will show it love and take care of its needs,” Jacobs said. Sanbi said the Karoo Desert National Botanical Garden and pupils at Lanner House also helped out. “The garden staff taught the children about indigenous water-wise plants, how to plant trees and succulents, and prepare the soil, while the Lanner House children helped with the planting. “AAA donated the paint, and Worcester Gymnasium handed out food packets to the children. Some children and staff also painted the principal’s office. “All children participated (in the event) and helped make their school grounds more beautiful,” Sanbi said. Yesterday, Sanbi also presented certificates of appreciation to its project partners involved in the Adaptation Fund project. The fund finances projects and programmes that help vulnerable communities in developing countries to adapt to climate change. Supported by the Department of Environmental Affairs, Sanbi was accredited as South Africa’s national implementing entity of the Adaptation Fund in 2011. Since then two projects have been approved, and it is at the halfway point of these projects. The first project, “building resilience in the greater uMngeni catchment area”, is led by the uMgungundlovu district municipality in KwaZulu-Natal, with the support of the University of KZN, which is leading innovative agricultural work. The second project, “taking adaptation to the ground: a small grants facility for enabling local level responses to climate change in South Africa”, provided an opportunity to learn how to develop and implement high-impact climate change adaptation projects.