The caretaker of the site in Tamboerskloof earmarked for affordable housing, André Laubscher, believes it would serve the City better to further develop the “foster farm” for the vast number of children in need. He is also of the opinion the City needs to first sort out what’s happening in District Six before regarding the defunct military site as a panacea for all its housing ills. “They moved people out of District Six and now District Six is just lying there. So why can’t that be sorted out. If they tried to put affordable housing here, as they laughingly call it these days, it’s going to be a battle for years. So in the meantime we can build a place to raise children here,” said Laubscher. The future of the community farm has been uncertain since the government issued eviction notices at the end of August 2016. The 8.4-hectare "eco-village", officially listed as Erf 81, is on land managed by the Department of Public Works. Also affected is Tyisa Nabanye, an urban agriculture NGO which runs independently from the farm on the upper slopes of the plot. It grows vegetables and herbs using sustainable permaculture farming methods to stimulate food security and foster job creation. Many people volunteer at the foster farm, work in the Tyisa Nabanye garden or visit the Sunday market. While Ward 77 councillor Brandon Golding has championed the Tamboerskloof development as the answer to the Bo-Kaap’s housing dilemma, Ebrahim Daniels, a member of the Bo-Kaap Disadvantaged Community incensed by the increasing gentrification and higher rates in a suburb holding court to foreign buyers and high-rise development, isn’t sold on the idea. After all, many generations have called the Bo-Kaap home. To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. “We don’t feel like moving. We'd love to have our houses here in this area on these three plots (along Voetboog Road on the upper slopes of the Bo-Kaap) here in the mountain,” said the 51-year-old Daniels, a bricklayer by profession. He also doesn’t want what is happening in District Six to be repeated in the Bo-Kaap. “All the projects going up is student accommodation. Why didn’t they build houses for the people from District Six or from Woodstock or Salt River?” A total of 2 760 District Six land claims were lodged and verified by December 1998. Of these, 1 449 opted for financial compensation, while 1 201 opted to return to District Six. Thus far, only 139 claimants have received housing units within the area. Masizole Mnqasela, a member of the standing committee on human settlements in the provincial parliament, commenting on the progress of housing units for ex-residents of District Six, said earlier this year: “It took us so quick to build World Cup stadiums and the Gautrain, but it took so long to build a few hundred houses.” For Laubscher, who happened upon this abandoned military base in 1994, “Cape Town has a got a vast number of children in need of foster care. It’s difficult to find one home for one child. It’s more logical to find one home for a number of children. We’ve got to do something about the children of the future". However, there is a belief that the "buffer zone" between the predominantly middle-class suburb of Tamboerskloof and working-class Cape Malay suburb of the Bo-Kaap offers an ideal opportunity to better integrate the communities in a city still essentially divided by apartheid spatial planning. To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. 