The youths, who are affiliated to countrywide satellites of Club Football Academy Plus, will compete in the World Youth Gothia Cup Tournament in Gothenburg from July 15 to  21. Academy founder, Sebastian Ribic,  said two of their teams (Under-11 and Under-12) had played in the same tournament in China last year. “This year we're taking five teams (Under-12, Under-14, Under-16 and two Under-18) from Western Cape, Limpopo and Gauteng to the tournament. From Cape Town we have about 22 players going,” said Ribic. “We’re a feeder academy, and our objective is to promote as many players from our academy into professional soccer leagues and clubs. “The Gothia Cup tournament serves as the perfect opportunity to expose our talented and aspiring soccer players to the international stage. Our academy is eight years old and we run 16 academies in three provinces in South Africa,” added Ribic Western Cape academy left-winger Mogammad Hendricks, 15, from Walmer Estate, said:  “I will compete in the Under-16 team. I'm very excited to play in the Gothia Cup. I have faith in the team and hope we are going to win the Cup.” Mogammad was part of two of the Academy’s teams that played in friendly games in Australia last year. “It was an Under-15 and an Under-17 team. The experience was good, but there was a lot of pressure because a lot of spectators were watching the games,” he said. His mother, Najwa Hendricks, said the World Youth Gothia Cup is the world's largest and most international youth football tournament. “Each year about 1 700 teams take part and play 4 000 games on 110 fields. It's the teams and participants from around the world that make the tournament unique. ‘‘The Gothia Cup works with around 2 500 people to make the week-long tournament a success,” she added. She said the tournament was started in 1975 by Swedish football associations BK Hacken, GAIS and a local newspaper, but had since the 1980s been solely owned by BK Hacken. “Through the years almost a million players from a total of 146 countries have participated in the tournament,” said Hendricks. Dennis Andersson, general secretary of the Gothia Cup, said: “We aim to provide an experience for all participants. The Gothia Cup - more than just football, was an expression used for many years. "A lot of resources were used on the opening ceremony and other spectacular events. The thought was that no one would travel around the world just to play some football matches. “We've always been associated with words like experience, encounters and international football. Right from the outset, the Gothia Cup had a high footballing status. ‘‘Winning the Gothia Cup was and remains one of the finest things you can wish for as a young footballer. "Nowadays it’s an achievement simply to take part,” said Andersson.  raphael.wolf@inl.co.za 