The commission said it had received a number of complaints regarding the proposed transaction. Following an investigation, it said the proposed merger could result in a “substantial prevention of competition”. It found the merger would have a negative effect on the national cigarette and e-cigarette market in terms of competitiveness. The commission identified BAT Holdings SA as a leading cigarette manufacturer and supplier globally, supplying more than 200 cigarette brands worldwide. In addition to traditional cigarettes, BAT produced and supplied tobacco products including fine cut (a roll-your-own tobacco product), snus (a moist powder product originating from a variant of dry snuff) and cigars. Internationally, BAT was also a leading supplier of e-cigarettes, including in Europe and the US, the commission said. Twisp director of corporate and regulatory affairs, Kabir Kaleechurn said the company had yet to engage with the commission on its findings. “Until such time that Twisp has all the details behind the reasons for the decision, we cannot comment on the decision at this stage,” Kaleechurn said. BAT Holdings SA said they were disappointed with the recommendation. “We have been informed of the preliminary indication of the opinion of the SA Competition Commission with regards to the Twisp transaction,” the company said. “This comes as both a surprise and a disappointment. “Once we have received the full opinion, we will review the details therein to understand our possible next steps.” The commission said input was received from other parties regarding the proposed transaction. “Following the investigation, the commission found that the proposed merger would result in a substantial prevention of competition. “Further, the proposed merger raises significant public interest concerns. There were no efficiency justifications or remedies that were submitted which can alleviate the concerns arising. For this reason, the commission recommends that the proposed transaction be prohibited,” the commission said yesterday. It said the proposed transaction would result in the removal of potential competitors in the local market. Given BAT’s presence in the e-cigarette market internationally, the commission found that BAT had the ability to enter the South African e-cigarette market without having to acquire Twisp. “Therefore, the merger is likely to result in unilateral effects which may manifest in the form of an increase in prices of e-cigarettes in future (or a reduction in the rate of price reductions that could potentially occur with BAT’s entry) and/or a reduction in the quality or rate of innovation of e-cigarette products offered post-merger,” the commission said. francesca.villette@inl.co.za