The man was detained after being assaulted, allegedly by Thembalethu residents in George, for allegedly raping a pensioner. Captain Dumile Gwavu said Bongani Qubu allegedly kicked down the door of a woman’s home in Tuis Street, Zone 9, Thembalethu on Monday night, threatened her with a knife and raped her. “Qubu fell asleep on the bed after the alleged rape and the woman called for help from the community, who assaulted him. He was rescued by the police from the community and received medical treatment from an ambulance,” said Gwavu. Ipid spokesperson Moses Dlamini said the arresting officer indicated that the police came to Qubu’s rescue while he was being assaulted by a mob. Police took Qubu to the holding cells and asked emergency medical services personnel to treat his injuries. Paramedics informed the police official who booked Qubu into the holding cells that he did not need any immediate treatment, and that he could remain in custody, said Dlamini. “He was placed in the cells with other inmates,” he said. “The deceased was naked due to the community members’ alleged assault. The victim sustained several abrasive wounds and it is suspected that he died of the injuries sustained prior to his arrest.” He said Ipid went to the scene of Qubu’s alleged assault and a case of murder was registered. “This case is being investigated by the police as the deceased was allegedly assaulted by members of the community. The Ipid will investigate as to why the deceased was not taken to hospital for medical attention, as the post-mortem confirms that he had extensive injuries.” Asked why the paramedics had not taken Qubu to hospital for treatment, provincial health department spokesperson Mark van der Heever said: “We express our deepest sympathy to the family of the deceased for their traumatic loss. We have engaged our EMS (emergency medical service) division in Eden (municipality) over the incident. “They will conduct an investigation into the allegation. Once we receive the information, we will be in a better position to comment,” he said. Thembalethu community leader Thethani Madikwa cautioned people against taking the law into their own hands, saying by doing so they themselves became criminals. “I understand people are frustrated and want criminals out of their areas, but breaking the law will not solve criminality. Even though in some cases these assaults happen at the spur of the moment, as people are controlled by their emotions, the police should be contacted at all times,” he said.