Cape Town - A 21-year-old mom of three, who had interdicts against her boyfriend, is expected to appear in court on Friday after she allegedly stabbed him to death in front of police.Outraged community members in Mitchells Plain are now calling for the young woman’s release, saying she was raising her children, four-year-old and one-year-old twins, on her own and had several interdicts against her “abusive” boyfriend. Police say they were called out to a complaint of domestic violence and that Randall Grace, 28, was fatally stabbed after a fight broke out in the backyard of his home in Bayern Munich Street, Freedom Park, Tafelsig. The incident happened on Wednesday just after 8.45pm. The woman, who was arrested, may not be named until she has been charged in court. A relative, who asked to remain anonymous, says the woman has had several interdicts against Grace. She says the young mother is worried sick about her children while in jail. “The interdicts were handed to the police so that he doesn’t hit her anymore,” says the family member. “She lives for her children and is worried about them. She had to look after her children alone.” The young woman’s mother has extended her condolences to Grace’s family. “I am also a mother and I sympathise with his mother. What happened, happened,” she says. A neighbour says the community is calling for her release as her children need her. “That child has been through so much and she didn’t mean to do this. We saw how she struggled with her pram on the road, looking for food and nappies for her children,” the neighbour says. Witnessed Meanwhile, Grace’s sister, Revon Matthew, 27, says she witnessed the stabbing. “There was an argument over a missing cellphone and one of her family members said the phone is his. One of her family members then smacked Randall,” she claims. “The police came and they asked Randall to explain what was happening. One of her family members came in and asked why Randall smacked his girlfriend. “But it wasn’t like that. Then she (the suspect) started stabbing him and I think the police thought she was hitting him. One cop was stabbed in the hand. “Randall was stabbed in the neck and died on his way to the hospital.” Police spokesperson, Sergeant Noloyiso Rwexana, could not confirm if an officer was injured and says the suspect will appear in court on Friday. “A case of murder has been opened for investigation after a stabbing incident that left a 28-year-old fatally injured,” she says. “According to information on 25 July at about 8.45pm police attended a domestic violence complaint at Bayern Munich Street, Tafelsig. “A fight occurred and the victim was stabbed and he died due to his injuries. “A 21-year-old female was arrested and she is expected to appear at Mitchells Plain Magistrates’ Court on 27 July.” Daily Voice