As the national footwear sector strike of members of the Southern African Clothing and Textile Workers Union (Sactwu) and National Union of Leather and Allied Workers (Nulaw) enters its eighth day, strikers remain resolute to continue their strike action. The unions’ respective general secretaries, Andre Kriel and Ashley Benjamin, said despite sporadic acts of intimidation against members to weaken their resolve, the strike was strong and they were determined to pursue their demands. Their unions would do everything they could to resolve the strike, in spite of the employer organisation, the South African Footwear and Leather Industry Association (Saflia), not having made any new offers to the unions at national level, they said. “Their final offer still remains at a wage increase of 6.25%. The two unions remain steadfast that we want a better package increase for our members,” they added. Strikers demand a 9% wage increase. “However, we are receiving many settlement offers from individual employers. We have advised them that we are not interested in settling at plant level. We require one national agreement that will cover the whole of the footwear industry. Until then, the strike will continue,” insisted Kriel and Benjamin. The unions were following up intimidation allegations of workers by employers, who, Benjamin said, infringed the constitutional right of workers to take part in protected strikes. Saflia chairperson Noel Whitehead said the strike caused hardship on both sides, with no one the winner. He said most footwear manufacturers were working short-time, due to depressed sales, reflected in the annual footwear statistics, which reduced total manufacturing in 2017 to 17%. “This reduction in 2017 is the first year since 2011 that we had negative production in the footwear industry. All indications are that the 2018 production numbers will reduce further, which is placing a massive strain on the industry as a whole.” The sector had always been very accommodating with increases, having since 2003 always given above the annualised CPI inflation percentage, on average in excess of 2% every year, said Whitehead. “During tough economic trading conditions, this is not sustainable, therefore we consider the 6.25% offered this year to be fair. It is still above inflation for this year. Our sector pays the highest wage rates compared to other associated sectors. “For example, an entry-level general worker in the footwear sector earns R1 533.06 per week or the equivalent of R6 638.15 per month, tanning sector R1 212.54 per week (R5 250.30 per month) and general goods and handbags R1 031.57 per week (R4 466.70 per month). “Our offer of the 6.25% increase on wages and the inclusion of spouse in the family responsibility leave remains open. It is a fair offer,” said Whitehead.  raphael.wolf@inl.co.za 