The fundraising was organised by Kleinmond resident Henriette Derby after she was shown the gruesome picture by a friend’s child. “I realised it happened close to his home and that he actually witnessed this barbaric act, so I decided something needs to be done. It just broke my heart. Nothing is wrong with protesting but what is happening in Zwelihle is not a protest, people are just committing crime. “When I suggested the idea to raise a reward for the perpetrator people said they would be on board and what started at R100 turned to thousands also with the help of Adrian Louw Attorneys.” Derby said the owners of the cat had informed people that the animal and other cats were missing, so there was a possibility that it was killed. She said if the perpetrator is not apprehended the funds will be divided between local animal welfare societies - Haws, Kaws and Rad - to use with the aim of raising awareness for animal protection. The matter is being investigated by the National Council of SPCAs. Zwelihle has been marred by violence since more than 1 000 residents vowed to shut down the area. They are demanding the release of arrested community leader, Gcobani Ndzongana. He was accused of inciting violence, which led to the removal of a fence which residents said was erected to separate them from their (white) neighbouring community. Ndzongana is due to appear in court on Thursday and the residents have given authorities up until then to drop all charges against him. The Hermanus swimming pool buildings and a section of the Walker Bay recycling facility were torched. Four police officers were injured and one person hospitalised. The library and private houses were also torched. On Sunday, the acting provincial police commissioner Hendrik Burger, along with Premier Helen Zille, among others were locked in a meeting discussing ways to end the violence. Zille couldn’t hold back her tears when councillors who reside in the area informed her they were scared for their lives. She was pelted with stones when she attempted to address angry residents on Friday. In a social media post, Zille said: “(I) heard first-hand accounts from residents of Zwelihle about the extent of the violence and intimidation they face. People who went to work had their clothing and furniture removed from their houses and burnt in the street. “And, most gruesomely, some pets have suffered the same fate.” She said, while the police have contained the situation, it was impossible to prevent random roaming groups from causing mayhem. Anyone wishing to contribute towards the fundraising can use the following details: Trust Account details: Adrian Louw Attorneys NEDBANK 147 000 7940 Use your name and ZWECAT as reference. Potential donors are urged to send an SMS to 0606949835 to confirm payment. Cape Times