The forum, taking place at Cape Town’s Westin Hotel from tomorrow, is expected to be the biggest one yet, with last year’s held in China. This year’s forum will be hosted by Cai Mingzhao, President of Chinese News Agency, Xinhua News, and Dr Iqbal Survé, Chairperson of the BRICS Business Council, under the theme: “BRICS Media Co-operation - Fostering an Inclusive, Just World Order.” Among the speakers are Minister of Communication, Nomvula Mokonyane, Survé, Cai and deputy head of the Publicity Department of the Communist Party of China, Wang Xiaohui. The first session, “Strengthening the BRICS narrative: media’s role and responsibility”, will be facilitated by the editor of The Star, Japhet Ncube. Ncube said it was encouraging to see how many media houses will be participating in this session. “It speaks to the importance of a multi-dimensional, wide-ranging co-operation that needs to be forged and strengthened among the BRICS media. The spirit of BRICS is openness, inclusivity and co-operation - and this must be reflected in the role that the media plays, in particular, how news is disseminated, how news is reported, focusing on innovation and development in the BRICS countries in the face of major transformation and adjustment but also uncertainty and destabilising factors,” said Ncube. He said BRICS media had become an influential platform for co-operation on the global stage. The main goal of the forum is to foster new ways to enhance and advance the BRICS narrative, outlining media responsibilities and the media’s role in the BRICS agenda, envisioning a shared global future through the building and development of journalism in the BRICS context. The two-day event will also act as a build-up to the upcoming 10th BRICS Summit starting on July 25 at the Sandton Convention Centre. Chairperson of the African Editors’ Forum Jovial Rantao is set to moderate the third session titled BRICS Media and Africa. He said the goal was to ensure that the media was better informed and active participants in empowering their communities to grow themselves economically. “In my view, 10 years on, BRICS has become the new global order and the media forum is an opportunity for the media community from these countries to talk about what this partnership means. “Our focus, as the BRICS media partners, is to look at how we are consuming media and how we are using these platforms to better inform our communities,” said Rantao. Over the course of the two days they would look at innovations, sharing experiences, and strengthening the relationship between the BRICS media communities, he said.