Some Zwelihle residents fear for their lives, being "too scared to go outside or even buy something to eat", while those injured have complained of struggling to access medical treatment since violence flared in the Hermanus township last week. Neither do all residents believe the protests are serving a purpose and benefit the community, with thousands taking to the streets to demand the release of Zwelihle Renewal leader Gcobani Ndzongana, who was arrested for incitement and destruction of property. While it has been difficult for police to enter the township due to trenches having been dug in roads and all exits blocked, some injured residents were unable to seek medical treatment as the Hermanus Community Day Centre was closed due to the protests, News24 reported. "It is difficult for us to go into the community, because protesters have dug trenches in the roads. Zwelihle has become completely inaccessible," police spokesperson Colonel Luthando Nosilela said. Patients had to be referred to the nearest clinic for medical treatment and to Hermanus Hospital for emergencies. Siyathemba Qotyana is still traumatised after he was shot with rubber bullets during the protests on Friday. "I got shot on the side of my face. I was scared for my life due to what’s going on," Qotyana said. "We don’t know when it’s going to stop. I’m scared to go outside or even buy something to eat. We don’t know what we’re going to eat tonight. You don’t know if your house is going to burn down. I wish I could have gone to the hospital, especially for the wound on my face, but I can't drive my car here." Songezo Mavathi said: "We have been protesting for five days now and we don’t see the benefit. We’re not going to get what we want. "The protest is resulting in injury to our people. We are not getting what we want from the protest and our bosses are losing money too. Our employers need to convince our government to respond to our grievances." However, community leaders have confirmed that the shutdown will continue, saying they have made plans to meet with police and government officials for negotiations. "We are going to continue with the shutdown until we get answers. We are going to the meetings and hopefully there will be progress," Zwelihle Renewal member Sicelo Gxamesi said. Ward councillor Lindile Ntsabo said the protest is no longer about “the land issue”; the protesters are demanding the release of Ndzongana and the other 19 fellow community members who were arrested during an initial protest. “The land issue was settled on the 27th of March by the Department of Human Settlement, and everyone seemed to be happy,” said Ntsabo. “On Friday, Premier Helen Zille attempted to address the angry residents of Zwelihle about the escalating violence in the area. The residents did not allow her to say a word and instead of engaging her on their grievances threw stones she was forced to abandon her attempts and left. “Some of the community members are scared, they are being held hostage, some are told and threatened to protest.”