Ward councillor Lindile Ntsabo said the protest is no longer about “the land issue”; the protesters are now demanding the release of Gcobani Ndzongana and the other 19 fellow community members who were arrested during an initial protest. “The land issue was settled on the 27th of March by the Department of Human Settlement, and everyone seemed to be happy,” said Ntsabo. “On Friday, Premier Helen Zille attempted to address the angry residents of Zwelihle about the escalating violence in the area. The residents did not allow her to say a word and instead of engaging her on their grievances threw stones she was forced to abandon her attempts and left.” Ntsabo added: “Some of the community members are scared, they are being held hostage, some are told and threatened to protest.” Theron Mqhu, a spokesperson from, Zwelihle Renewal, said: “The tensions remain high in our community. People are frustrated and angry, demanding their leaders be released from police custody.” “We are standing with the community that it will be a total shutdown till the return of Gcobani,” said Mqhu. Protesting residents threw stones at the police members on patrol, while in return, police officers fired tear gas at the community on Monday. To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. The committee of the Hermanus Animal Welfare Society issued a statement on Facebook, claiming that animals were being abused in these protests. “The Hermanus Animal Welfare Society condemns in the strongest terms the appalling incident where one of the Zwelihle protesters swung a cat on a rope and then threw it in a fire.” They added: “We cannot identify the perpetrator of this criminal act, and we trust that there are members of the community who will come forward and give the police information” Police spokesperson Captain FC van Wyk appealed to those participating in the protest to do so within the law. @SISONKE_MD  sisonke.mlamla@inl.co.za  Cape Argus