The Women and Beyond NPO will distribute sanitary towels, stationery and shirts to at least nine Western Cape schools. St Paul's Primary School in Eerste River will be the first beneficiary, according to the NPO director and founder, Basha Taylor. “On Saturday evening we held a fundraiser at the CTICC, where supporters paid a price for their seat and banqueting. It was such a successful event and we met women from all walks of life, however, we do encourage people to continue supporting the cause,” Taylor said. Women and Beyond provides services and support to women and children, who are victims of poverty and abuse. Taylor said the organisation's goal is to offer counselling, support and intervention to women and children affected by poverty-related societal problems. “Our No Shame campaign, for which we staged the fundraiser, encouraged donations for sanitary towels, girls' underwear garments, school uniforms, school shoes, stationery, clothes and blankets, toiletries and computers for the literacy programme. “We have reached out to primary schools now as well, where we speak on abuse awareness and equipping children where these cases are most prevalent,” Taylor said. Taylor said the response to the fundraising was overwhelming. Now they could not wait to distribute the goods at schools where there “is a major need for this”. “(We want) to help empower women and children to thrive under these sad, tragic and yet real circumstances many face in South Africa. "We recognise that, in the communities we service (rural and informal settlements), that violence aimed at women and children is rife with substance abuse, which is why majority of our cases are facilitated by social workers, psychologists, doctors, pastors, community registered nurses and volunteers,” she said. The organisation also leads two other campaigns called the Pink Agenda, which centres on Breast Cancer awareness, and The Legacy, which is a girls' school programme. Anyone wishing to contribute can use the following banking details: Name of Bank: ABSA Account Number: 9329745415 Type of account: SAVINGS Branch number: 632005 Name of Account Holder: Rachum Ministry (Pty) Ltd.