At the age of 35, she is the vessel’s chief scientist. Born in Durban, the oldest of two girls, she attended an Indian school where she said she didn’t learn about the ocean or ocean life. “But I read a lot and I was fascinated by the life in the ocean. When I was 10 or 11 years old, I said I think I’m going to be a marine biologist. Looking back, I obviously had no idea what that meant, but that’s what I decided.” After the first democratic elections in 1994 she was moved to a former model C school where she had access to a lot more information, and the idea stuck, she added. After her studies at what is now UKZN, she was headhunted by the government for her work in the field of top predators, including whales, sharks and dolphins. “I worked on white sharks and after that I moved to food webs.” She then got a permanent position working at the Department of Environmental Affairs within the biological oceanography group. She worked her way in a short space of time to head of monitoring programme on the tip of Cape Town, Slangkop, that has been going since 1995. Here they monitored the amount of fish eggs and larvae in the water, as the team’s mandate is focused on fisheries. “In 2010, the department split. The president had made his State of the Nation speech and had moved government departments around, and so our department didn’t just move, but he had split a group of us off. We stayed in Environmental Affairs and everyone else moved to Fisheries. “And it turned out to be one of the best decisions they have made for the environment in South Africa for a long time. “We have the best legislation in the world, but enforcing legislation on the ocean has always been very difficult. In 2013, she introduced two more monitoring lines, off Namaqualand and Hondeklip Bay. “We now monitor the entire West Coast. “We have 12 projects I manage on the West Coast and are now adding another two, so we will have 14.” She said the cruise had been hard work but had paid off. “Science is still male-dominated; you will walk into the room and people look at you, and you’re female and of colour, and I am a tiny person. “You have a choice: you can go, okay, they have judged me already, or you can leave that and look at the work you are doing. This is why you are a scientist; this is why I’m doing it.” lisa.isaacs@inl.co.za