Johannesburg - The DA says Lennit Max cannot be an advisor to Police Minister Bheki Cele and still remain a DA member. The party's Western Cape leader Bonginkosi Madikizela said the party welcomed Max's resignation as the member of the Western Cape provincial legislature and it wishes him well on his new role. However, Madikizela said Max's comments at a press briefing held on Monday were indicative that he was campaigning for the ANC by continuously referring to the slogan "Thuma Mina”, a slogan that has become part of the ANC's lexicon. Max was offered the job by Cele but said he will remain as a DA member. "Max indicated his intention to become an ANC member when he said “I am not yet a member of the ANC”. He continued to refer to the ANC national election campaign slogan Thuma Mina”, which came across as his way of campaigning for the ANC, and his comments about what the Western Cape provincial government has done in terms of community safety was for the period when the ANC was in power," said Madikizela. READ: Lennit Max now special advisor to Bheki Cele "However, he never referred to the time that he was appointed as MEC for safety and what he did for the people of this province," he said. "Lennit Max seemed to be speaking as an ANC member and not a DA member.” Max, who has an extensive expertise as a police officer, defended his decision to work with Cele. He said he had continuously offered his 27 years police experience to the DA, but the party had refused to take up his offer. "The decision to join the national government was also born from my frustrations for not being allowed to use my skills and expertise whilst in the DA," he said. "As trained police officer I could no longer sit idle. I approached the leadership, I offered my skills but it was declined. This not only frustrated but angered me,” Max said. Max has previously served as the Western Cape police commissioner and was reportedly given a R5 million gold handshake to leave after allegations of sexual harassment emerged. Politics Hub