The uncle of slain 11-year-old Stacha Arendse will be offering Cathy Martin, the grandmother of the missing Marceline Spandiel, from Ravensmead, support in this difficult time. Henry Arends, chairperson of the Mitchells Plain Crisis Forum, intends to give Martin, 73, advice after the 11-year-old Marceline disappeared on July 10. Marceline and her twin brother, who are between foster homes, were to be in Martin's care until September 19. “What I can do is get into contact with the grandmother and then I can take it from there. I did see the post on Facebook and I can most definitely sit with her and give her advice,” said Arends. Marceline was last seen with her twin brother at Belhar station after they decided to visit their father without telling their grandmother. Her brother later returned on his own and told Martin his sister had left on the train in the company of an unknown woman. Martin is concerned Marceline’s brother is hiding information about his sister's whereabouts. There are fears Marceline could end up another fatal statistic on a seemingly endless list of young children going missing on the Cape Flats. When asked what parents should do when they feared their children have gone missing, Arends said: “What we normally do is we first open a case, then we try to establish her last whereabouts, who her friends are and their phone numbers. We also post it on Facebook. Regarding what parents could do to ensure that their children stay safe, Arends said: “What we encourage parents to do is to keep the communication channels open with their children and make them aware of the dangers. Have conversations with them often and get to know who their school friends are and all these types of things. "Start creating awareness in them of the dangers that lurk outside. Everything starts at home because once our children start going outside of the home, they get into all kinds of trouble. “It’s important to have a relationship with our children and be interested in what they do, such as what they like, what they don’t like, and try to give them guidance and direction. “This conversation with your child about the dangers should, in my experience, start at primary school level. From Grade 6 onwards we need to start educating our children because as parents we are so focused on our work, our problems. “We expect our child to understand, but often they don’t. We need to spend time with them to hear what they are doing because that’s where we are losing it at the end of the day. “This should be a daily conversation, but even as a family once a week. There must be regular communication between children and parents. We need to instil certain principles and values because they no longer have that. “They get influenced so easily at school. Our concern is that the children are becoming parents and the parents are becoming children. I see children four or five years old having to fend for themselves for a meal or even for a day or a night. “We are so focused on our children but we also need to focus on getting parenting skills, such as signs parents need to look for, especially in their teenagers.” Stacha, from Mitchells Plain, disappeared on March 27 last year while watching movies at a friend’s home close to her house. She was reported missing at 7pm and a few hours later her naked and battered body was found dumped on a soccer field nearby. Her killer, Randy Tango, was handed life imprisonment for each of the two rape charges and another life sentence for murder. He also got 10 years for having sexual relations with a 14-year-old minor in 2008, with whom he has an eight-year-old daughter. 