The initiative, part of Nelson Mandela Day celebrations, was about going further to create sustainable business in future. It is the brainchild of one of Africa’s most influential women, Lesley Waterkeyn, executive of brand and marketing agency Colourworks, and Over The Rainbow. “Over The Rainbow, a partner in the initiative, will provide the 67 businesses with an SME boot camp. The successful entrepreneurs will also receive training and services such as free web hosting. “We want to get behind entrepreneurs in South Africa. We believe that’s where the growth is. The full package we are offering the 67 participating SMEs can make a real bottom-line impact. “This translates to adding value to the economy and lowering the failure rate of entrepreneurs.” World-renowned businesswoman Dawn Jones said: “As leaders it’s incredibly important to take what you have learned and impart it to others. The 67 minutes is not just a one day thing, but a daily practice. “I was blown away by everyone and the stories in the background of the business are heart-warming; the good work they are doing in communities by working with children and the youth as they are the future. “This initiative aligns with Mandela’s legacy of alleviating poverty and creating jobs through empowering and inspiring others without expecting anything in return. There is no better way to teach people about ethics the business way and how to create wealth as ethically as possible.” Young entrepreneurs Dominic Schorr, Carla Wilby and Jasanth Moodley are co-founders of ZELDA, a mobile application (app) that assists students and pupils to figure their personality type and helps them understand which careers they should pursue. “We want to invest in education any way we can because Mandela did. He left a legacy where we can get the best education, so we want to make sure other students also get the same opportunity. “We want education to be more accessible. The app will ensure that they choose the right career. It can also recommend bursaries and funding which they can apply for through the app. “We have been in the students’ shoes and needed adequate guidance. We made expensive career mistakes when we got to varsity,” said Schorr. Businesswoman and feminist Tamarin Morrell started GRRRRL CAMP, an NPC which teaches young school girls about self-confidence and leadership skills in a holiday programme. Young girls from the Cape Flats integrate with girls from the suburbs at private schools and learn from each other. “This was born out of the work I’ve done with female entrepreneurs. I’m passionate about women and girls in leadership. In South Africa there’s a lack of opportunity for them to take a place of leadership in corporate and non-corporate organisations,” she said.