Cape Town - A Rondebosch woman is still in intensive care after grappling with a hijacker who stole her car with her two dogs inside. According to Warrant Officer Lyndon Sisam, of Rondebosch police, Louise Schachat, 59, left her car - with her two dogs inside - idling to open the gate to her Grotto Road home, at 2.20pm, last Thursday, when a man jumped into the driver’s seat. Ms Schachat ran to the car, begging him to let the dogs out, but he sped away, swerving all over the road, with Ms Schachat hanging onto the side of the window, before being flung to the side of the road. Her husband, Arnold, 64, said she had suffered multiple pelvic fractures, broken ribs and internal bleeding.  Rondebosch police said SAPS officers from an anti-hijacking unit had spotted the car on the N2 near Athlone later that same day. The car had had problems with the front wheel and when the officers had tried to catch the attention of the driver to warn him about it, he had sped off. The two officers then heard over the radio that the car matched the description of the one taken in Rondebosch. A high-speed chase followed and the officers arrested the 19-year-old man behind the wheel after the car crashed near Gugulethu. Ms Schachat’s golden retriever, Khaya, was rescued but the other dog, a Labrador called Sasha, jumped out the car window and fled while Khaya was attacking the hijacker. With the help of the community and social media, Sasha was found on Sunday afternoon in the Montana area. Mr Schachat thanked Rondebosch police and Michelle Barnard, from the Rescue is the New Black animal shelter, for helping to get Sasha home. Valentino Barends and his family located Sasha after seeing a post by Ms Barnard on social media. They have donated the R10 000 reward money to the Rescue is the New Black animal shelter. Ms Schachat is recovering and conscious in ICU Life Vincent Pallotti Hospital. Rondebosch police said the suspect appeared in the Wynberg Magistrate’s Court on Monday, charged with vehicle theft. He is in custody and will appear in court again on Monday, July 9. Southern Suburbs Tatler