The Western Cape Education Department confirmed it was investigating management and governance-related complaints against Golden Grove Primary school former principal Tony Austen. The probe was opened last year after the school governing body (SGB) reported irregularities and suspicions of financial mismanagement. It is understood that the department suspended Austen for a month while it conducted a forensic investigation. He is now teaching at a local high school despite retiring in February. The school’s new principal, Dawn Petersen, took up her post this month. A former SGB executive member, who asked to remain anonymous for fear of victimisation, said members of the body had picked up that an “enormous amount of money was unaccounted for”. When the SGB requested proof of the spending of the missing funds, they were informed that a minute file with these details had been lost. While they were also provided with receipts for the upgrading of a classroom, this only amounted to a small percentage of the missing money, according to the source. “We couldn’t work with something that doesn’t add up. It was unethical. Funds were signed off irregularly.” The source said the department’s investigating team confiscated the former principal’s laptop, books and budget details. “We have been waiting for so long for an outcome of the investigation. The money is still not accounted for. It’s unacceptable.” Approached for comment, Austen yesterday said he wanted to put the ordeal behind him. “I’m retired now and It’s a chapter I really want to close.” Austen said he had worked hard to help build the school, and the investigation was “not pleasant”. “One realises that you may make mistakes, and we are not perfect. As far as I’m concerned, no money went missing. We are waiting for the (investigation) results. I know I haven’t done anything to harm the school,” he said. Austen said he retired as he had turned 65, and had been advised by a “superior” to retire at that time. “I wanted to complete the year. I could have, but by then I was tired of all this nonsense. I think it was better for me to leave at the time. I didn’t want to go, but it was probably for the best,” he said. In April, after indicating the investigation had been finalised and role-players would be informed of the outcome in May, the department backtracked and said the investigation was still being finalised. When pressed further, spokesperson Bronagh Hammond said this was an “error” and the relevant directorate gave a spokesperson details from another case, and not this one. “The name initiated the mix-up,” Hammond said. She said the department was dealing with a number of investigations at the same time, from sexual abuse allegations to financial misconduct, and other disciplinary issues. “The forensic investigation is near completion and it is hoped that all parties will be informed within the next month. “This includes the previous and new governing bodies, the previous and new principal, the staff and parents of the school,” Hammond said. She said Austen had a right to retire in terms of Section 10(3) of the Employment of Educators Act and the department had no legal basis to challenge this. The school informed the Cape Times that the current SGB had no comment on the matter.  lisa.isaacs@inl.co.za  Cape Times