Bredell, through his spokesperson James-Brent Styan, had denied that the report released last year had been brought to his attention. The municipality said the report had been brought to Bredells’ attention after being tabled to the Stellenbosch council in April 2017, as required by legislation. Stellenbosch Municipality spokesperson Stuart Grobbelaar said the matter was related to a forensic investigation requested by the municipality. “Thereafter follow-up reports from the disciplinary committee were served before council on several occasions, the most recent date being May 23, 2018. As part of the process of financial misconduct allegations investigated by the disciplinary committee, the MEC of Local Government was informed, as required by legislation,” he said. The report, which the Cape Times has seen, was prepared for the municipality as a review into the implementation and application of its T.A.S.K. job evaluation process. It highlighted several improprieties, including the human resources manager having suggested in a memorandum prepared for the council that the municipality pay employees a year’s backpay, whereas the relevant legislation only made provision for six months’ backpay. The report also showed he had stated that the provincial audit committee had reviewed the job grades to be implemented, when it had not. It found the phase 1 task process lacked an audit trail, which was also not signed off by the then acting municipal manager and the financial services manager had recalculated backpay incorrectly and included benefits and allowances for July 1, 2013 even though the council authorised backpay on salaries only, the report found. Breddell was also accused by a group of “concerned employees” of turning a blind eye to allegations of wasteful and irregular expenditure at the municipality. In a letter addressed to Bradell’s office, the group said: “No response from the Office of the MEC on this regard to date with regard to our request. All we got is that our concerns are noted.” Asked to comment, Styan said: “Upon receipt of the complaint (letter), the matter was referred to the department to follow up. Please note that the ministry and the department did not receive the report and were not in possession of said report until it was provided to us by the Cape Times.”  dominic.adriaanse@inl.co.za 