Cape Town - Angry farming activists in the Drakenstein area will oppose bail being granted to a suspect arrested in connection with the murder of 16-year-old Deoline Demas. Demas’s body was found at a dumpsite in Wellington on June 15 after she was reported missing on June 7. The 21-year-old suspect expected to appear in the Wellington Magistrate’s Court on Monday, was arrested on June 18. It is understood the suspect handed himself over to police and was known to Demas and her family. Women on Farms Project chief executive Colette Solomon has lambasted police for their “laxness”. Solomon said Demas was part of the organisation’s Young Women’s Programme when she and her family lived on Soetendal farm, Wellington. “One of the reasons we are upset about this senseless murder is when Demas went missing and her parents reported it to police, they were told to return home and come back a few days later if she was still missing. Essentially, five days were lost at the beginning of this search which was a vital time,” Solomon said. “We distributed flyers all over Wellington as part of our desperate search so that people became familiar with Demas’s face in the hope they could help us find her. A young man came forward and provided testimony about what had happened to her. Shortly afterwards, her burnt-out remains were found at a nearby dumping site,” she said. “We have submitted a petition demanding that he doesn’t get bail. As far as I understood, the man who is accused of her murder was somebody familiar to the family. Our community is still in shock because of it,” she said. According to Solomon during December 2015, 23 farmworker families, including Demas’s family, were evicted from a farm in the area. In the same town, the search continued for Chantell Matthyssen, 21, who went to Wellington desperate for a job. Matthyssen’s mother Carol Petersen said she is hopeful they will find her daughter alive. Anyone with information on Matthyssen’s whereabouts can anonymously contact Crime Stop on 0860010111 or SMS Crime Line on 32211. Meanwhile police have offered a reward to anyone who can assist them in solving the murder investigation of a 14-year-old Nelspoort girl. Lekisha Aliza Wilschut’s concealed body was found in an old dilapidated Transnet building by a passer-by searching for his missing horses on June 14 in Nelspoort. “An autopsy was conducted where preliminary reports indicated she was murdered. As such, we opened a murder docket ,” said police spokesperson Malcolm Pojie. Anyone with information can anonymously contact 0234148800/25 or Crime Stop at 0860010111.  chevon.booysen@inl.co.za  Cape Times