The robber died following a shoot-out with a metro police officer who had chased after them following the robbery. The officer was on patrol along Delft Main Road just after 6.30am when he saw two gunmen chasing a man. One of the suspects fired at the man. The officer identified himself just as the suspect was about to fire a second round, which resulted in the gunmen running away, said metro police Senior Superintendent Zelda Martin. She said the officer pursued the alleged robbers, but they started shooting at him. “He retaliated and shot one. The second man got away. Police confiscated a 9mm firearm found on the scene. The suspect died on the scene, as did the victim. “It later emerged that the recovered firearm was reported stolen in a house break-in in Swellendam on Friday.” Martin said police had launched a manhunt for the second suspect, and called on witnesses to come forward with information. Martin said the officer received trauma counselling and support from the department. Police spokesperson Noloyiso Rwexana said a murder docket was opened for investigation. She said the victim was in his twenties. Rwexana said the Independent Police Investigative Directorate was investigating the circumstances around the death of the suspect killed during the shoot-out with the metro police officer. She said no one had been arrested yet. Meanwhile, a police operation in Lentegeur, Mitchells Plain, saw four pistols, seven magazines, 97 rounds of ammunition,18 units of heroin and a substantial amount of cash confiscated. Six suspects between the ages of 23 and 38 have been arrested. They are expected to appear at the Mitchells Plain Magistrate’s Court facing charges of possession of unlicensed firearms, ammunition and a prohibited firearm as well as drugs. Police spokesperson Novela Potelwa said provincial Police Commissioner Khombinkosi Jula commended the efforts of police “who without fail venture out to make Western Cape communities safer”. “In trying and dangerous circumstances our police officials think of the safety of local communities. “Lentegeur will be safer with the six suspects behind bars and the four pistols off the streets of Cape Town,” said Jula.