Newly appointed university vice-chancellor Dr Chris Nhlapo yesterday said the university was planning to play its part in the revolution, which according to the World Economic Forum is evolving at an exponential pace, and needs an integrated response involving the public and private sectors as well as academia and civil society. “The whole technology aspect is taking us back to who we are as a university of technology,” Dr Nhlapo said. “We must be proud of how we can play our role in the higher education sector, particularly in the applied space. “The mission of CPUT 2030 says we have an opportunity to create one smart CPUT. This oneness speaks to cohesion - cohesion in building relations among stakeholders.” Dr Nhlapo was appointed as vice-chancellor earlier this month after acting in the position since August last year. He has occupied a number of senior positions at higher education institutions and science councils, and was the head of chemistry at the universities of the North and the Free State before joining the National Research Foundation as a manager. One of Dr Nhlapo’s highlights while with the foundation was the development of strategic documents and guidelines on strengthening management and leadership capabilities. He said CPUT now had more researchers than it ever did. The sudden death of world-class UCT cardiology researcher Professor Bongani Mayosi on Friday was a loss to the research fraternity, and his contribution to science would be cherished forever, said Dr Nhlapo. Mayosi’s A-rating from the National Research Foundation put him among leading international researchers, and in 2017 he was elected to the US National Academy of Medicine, one of the highest honours in health and medicine. “I send my condolences to his family, and UCT. Institutions depend on each other, so whatever happens at UCT impacts us at CPUT. “It’s a major loss because we want to have all the best brains here, this is the knowledge hub of South Africa,” Dr Nhlapo said. With a staff and student body of about 40 000 people at the province’s largest university, he said they were engaging with service providers and builders to accommodate a growing academic population. They were extending CPUT’s Wellington campus, and building more residences at its Bellville campus. “There is so much on the agenda: first is the building of new residences. We are extending in Wellington, and will be building here in Bellville. We are also having a programme where we are accrediting service providers to assist us in creating off-campus residences. Coupled with that is maintaining residences. “We are keeping a hawk’s eye on the maintenance of residences, which must meet all our criteria,” Dr Nhlapo said. Higher Education Minister Naledi Pandor this week ordered an investigation into the National Student Financial Aid Scheme, as some students have still not received their funding for 2017 or 2018. Pandor said applications would not open until the organisation had sorted out the backlog of student payments. Dr Nhlapo said he was comforted by the fact that the scheme committed to dealing with the backlog. “Our financial aid offices will also be able to assist where need be. It will be a serious issue come 2019, should it not be resolved. But I am comforted knowing they are committed,” Dr Nhlapo said.