On Monday at UCT’s health sciences faculty in Observatory, hundreds including Anglican priest and social justice activist Father Michael Lapsley, St George’s Cathedral Dean Michael Weeder, former vice- chancellor Max Price, countless names in the medical fraternity and even campus security mourned Mayosi’s death. The family of the UCT health sciences dean said in a statement that Mayosi had for the past two years been battling depression and ended his own life on Friday. Last year a research team led by Mayosi made what was described as the “biggest breakthrough in South African cardiology since Dr Chris Barnard’s first heart transplant”, for identifying a gene that is a major cause of sudden death by heart failure among young people and athletes. His A-rating from the National Research Foundation (NRF) counted him among the ranks of leading international researchers. UCT’s Professor Elelwani Ramugondo said everyone gathered there knew Mayosi in different ways, and to appreciate what he meant to all would take time. “I’m addressing specifically students and staff who feel that they are somehow responsible for what happened. When people suffer intensely, whenever there is a crisis, somehow there is a tendency to self- blame, and to begin to blame each other. “We need to ensure we do not get ourselves locked in that tendency,” she said. Ramugondo also spoke of Mayosi’s “brand of activism”. “It’s not the toyi-toying kind of activism, I’m not saying there isn’t a place for that other kind of activism. Bongani’s activism involved a vision that he had for people of this continent to set the agenda for health, not only nationally, but globally. “For those of you who have ever walked with Prof Mayosi, you would have noticed his brisk walk. Wherever he was going, he always walked with a sense of urgency. “This vision that he had kept him awake; it made him work very long hours, almost as if he knew he could run out of time. The hardest question those left behind ask themselves is ‘what now?’” Ramugondo added. “For many of us, who would have made ourselves available in any way to support the vision he had I hope as we continue that whenever we seek to emulate him, it wouldn’t be in the way that he chose to depart. “I say this, because there are students who are distraught, there are students who think perhaps it is time for them to depart too. I say to you, emulate Professor Mayosi in the way he lived. “Think about the vision he had, and seek out those people who affirm you. Seek them out for support.” Vice-Chancellor Professor Mamokgethi Phakeng said UCT’s executive has consulted with senior leadership at the faculty to decide on the best possible transition in the office of the dean. She also announced that Dr Reno Morar was appointed acting dean of the faculty from yesterday to August 31. “During this time, the executive will support Dr Morar to ensure the stability of the faculty and will oversee the appointment of an interim dean, who will be at the helm of the faculty until the process of searching for and appointing a substantive dean is completed,” Phakeng said. The health sciences faculty said in a statement that counsellors would be available on campus to provide support to staff and students yesterday and today. No prior permission or appointment is required. * The Sadag toll-free counselling line for students: 080024 2526 and staff: 0800171171. ICAS counselling toll-free number for staff: 0801113945.