“Lentegeur police received a complaint of a shooting incident. Upon arrival on the scene, police found three men who had been shot in a white Ford Focus at the intersection. They were declared dead on the scene by paramedics,” said police spokesperson FC van Wyk. He said the men were believed to be on their way to Mitchells Plain and at the intersection the unknown suspects, driving in an unknown vehicle, fired several shots, murdering the men. “The possibility that this incident might be gang-related will be investigated,” Van Wyk added. Van Wyk said murder cases were opened for investigation but no arrests had yet been made. Lentegeur resident Mark Brookes said the MItchells Plain community was tense as shootings in the area had become more frequent. “There has been a flare-up in gang violence across the Mitchells Plain area where rival gangs are shooting at each other. The shootings are not contained in one area and move across boundaries. Yesterday’s shooting appears to be a gang hit and seemed to be well-executed. We ask our community to please help police with their investigations and to also be mindful at crime scenes so as to not contaminate the scene,” Brookes said. Brookes added that more intervention was needed, although police were trying to monitor the gang-related incidents in the area. “The community must also understand that they have a role to play to assist police to conduct thorough investigations to bring these perpetrators to book,” he said. The latest deadly incident comes just 24 hours after two men were shot dead and one injured in two shootings in Bonteheuwel. Van Wyk said Bishop Lavis police had received a complaint of a murder at Jakkalsvlei Avenue in Bonteheuwel on Wednesday afternoon. Police arrived at a tuck shop, where they found a body. A 41-year-old man was shot and killed and a 32-year-old man wounded at Assegaai Road in Bonteheuwel. A murder and attempted murder case were opened for investigation. Anyone with information about the shootings can anonymously contact Crime Stop at 0860010111 or SMS 32211.  chevon.booysen@inl.co.za  Cape Times