Waleed Schroeder, 29, Levale Wagner, 30, and Gustav Moses, 33, yesterday appeared via camera feed from Pollsmoor Prison at the Mitchells Plain Magistrate's Court for the robbery and murder of Ebrahiem Phillips, 64, fondly known as Boeta Hiema. The three allegedly attacked Ebrahiem at the Total Garage in Beacon Valley on November 6 shortly after he withdrew his pension at the ATM. Over the past few weeks, his hartseer sister, Nadia Levy, 60, has been collecting signatures for a petition to oppose bail for the accused and had gathered more than 1 500 signatures. Read: Cape pensioner killed at ATM State prosecutor Darren Johnson told the court that as the three had opted to abandon their bail application, the state requested a postponement as they were still waiting for various reports, including the post-mortem report and crime scene photographs. Gasps of anger could be heard in the courtroom as the three suspects appeared upbeat and even smiled while they were addressing the court. Moses actually laughed as he asked Magistrate Zainunessa Arifdien for a “speedy trial”. “Ons wil graag vra vir ’n speedy trial op die moord klag. Ons al drie wil dit hê, (We would like to ask for a speedy trial on the murder charge. All three of us want this.)” he said. Arifdien postponed the case until 6 February 2018 for further investigation and informed the accused that there was still “lots of work” to be done in the matter. Speaking outside court, friends of the family expressed their shock at Moses’ request, saying the trio had shown no remorse or respect for the family who had lost a loved one. A member of the Beacon Valley Neighbourhood Watch, who asked not to be named, says the three accused are well-known skollies in the area: “Hulle is mos die bad boys of Beacon Valley. Almal weet hulle is Mongrels wat mense elke dag rob.” Nadia says the family is coping with her brother’s death but she still misses him every day. Boeta Hiema was unmarried and did not have any children, and had been living with his sister and her family in Lentegeur for the past 30 years. The pensioner, who enjoyed walking around Mitchells Plain, was known for giving cheap haircuts to men and women. Daily Voice