The former Khayelitsha resident and now manager of a Franschhoek guest house attended the launch of the Nelson Mandela Rules for the Treatment of Prisoners yesterday. First adopted in 1955 and acknowledged as the standard minimum rules (SMRs) for the treatment of prisoners, UN member states recognised that these rules were outdated and didn’t reflect major human rights and criminal justice developments. The rules were revised in 2015 to accommodate recent advances in correctional services and best practices and adopted as the Nelson Mandela Rules. Justice and Correctional Services Minister Michael Masutha led the launch at the historic prison where former president Nelson Mandela had been incarcerated. Bula said he became embroiled in substance abuse and crime at age 16, before being transferred to Drakenstein which he referred to as a place of excellence, a place of rehabilitation. “When I look at the people here in uniform, I don’t see correctional officers, I see mothers and fathers. I see the wombs that gave birth to the person you see today. “Those who have a heart to be corrected will find correction in rehabilitation,” said Bula. To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. Through the support of the officers he had applied for the many programmes available. On his release one assisted him to find a place in Franschhoek, as he feared regression by going back to Khayelitsha. Bula said he had worked as a junior chef at first and over time worked until his promotion to guest house manager. He got married last year and is the father a daughter he called Eva. The event drew national and international dignitaries, including National Director of Public Prosecutions Shaun Abrahams, Public Protector advocate Busisiwe Mkhwebane and recently appointed director-general of the department Arthur Fraser. The department handed over a bronzed pair of shoes to the representatives of the UN Office on Drugs and Crime, worn by Madiba while he served his sentence on Robben Island. Masutha said the event honoured the human character of the Struggle against apartheid - a crime against humanity. “Notwithstanding the challenges we have faced and continue to face, the journey we have travelled since 1994 has been one of commitment to a humanist rehabilitative correctional service. “It therefore came naturally that we were one of the first countries to adopt the UN Standard Minimum Rules, the essential elements of which were already implied in the Constitution and catered for in the Correctional Services White Paper, the plethora of policies and legislation we have adopted over the years of our democracy,” he said. Masutha said correctional services had 163140 inmates in its 243 correctional facilities comprising 45294 remand detainees and 117820 sentenced offenders, which was way above the 119000 bed capacity of the department.  dominic.adriaanse@inl.co.za 