The sewage spill was reported on July 10 at the Anchorage Pump Station about 45m from the Touw River following an electrical failure. SANParks rangers patrolling the Touw River have since picked up five dead fish - four grunters (one was removed by a resident), and one mullet. Test samples to determine the exact cause of death have been sent to a specialised laboratory in Onderstepoort, Pretoria. SANParks spokesperson Nandi Mgwadlamba said that to determine the exact cause of death is not as easy as simply sending them away for a test, it takes a lot of trial and error and very specialised laboratory work to try to pinpoint exactly what to test for. “One has to take a pragmatic approach at times if there were hundreds of dead fish then there would be real cause for concern and more intense investigative actions taken. “In this incident we have considered the water quality and the dissolved oxygen levels are a key indicator as very low levels can be detrimental to fish. The results of the test conducted do not indicate low levels if the levels were very low one would expect to find a wide variety and lots of dead fish,” Mgwadlamba said. Garden Route National Park Wilderness Marine Ranger Jonathan Britton said officials have been in direct contact with concerned residents as well as with the George Municipality which is responsible for the maintenance of the sewerage infrastructure in Wilderness. When the incident was reported, SANParks contacted the George Municipality to ensure the necessary actions were implemented to restore the sewerage pumps. A team then went to the site to inspect the area of concern and met with concerned residents at Pirates Creek where the incident occurred. On July 11, rangers collected water samples from the Touw River at Pirates Creeks to be tested for E.coli, Orthophosphates, Ammonia as it could be visually confirmed if sewage had entered the Touw River. Orthophosphates and Ammonia, are an indication of detergents typically found in wastewater would give an indication if sewage had entered the Touw River. SANParks said test results were not yet available at the time of writing, but would be made available. On a monthly basis SANParks monitors water quality at five sites in the Touw River. The tests for July were conducted on July 10, of which the results do not reflect any concerns. The Eden District Municipality Health Department also conducts monthly water quality tests in the Touw River. SANParks Scientific Services also has a long-term water monitoring project looking at specific physical properties, which gives experts baseline information and trends of water quality in the Touw Estuary. “If the results for E.coli and for Orthophosphates and Ammonia are high then we have contingency plans that will be activated with the George and Eden District Municipality,” Mgwadlamba said.