Cape Town - A hunt is on for a killer believed to be behind two murders, including that of a 16-year-old girl, in the small West Coast fishing village of St Helena Bay. He allegedly stabbed 37-year-old Denver Don in the neck, killing him almost instantly yesterday. Community leader Thyrone Williams said the man could also be behind the murder of 16-year-old Berodine Boyce, whose body was found in a shallow grave at the weekend. Williams said Don was sitting in his mother’s yard in Laingville yesterday when the killer approached him and told him “if I’m going to jail I’m never coming out”, before he allegedly attacked Don and fled. Boyce was last seen two Fridays ago on her way to a friend’s house. She never arrived. Police spokesperson FC van Wyk said Boyce’s mother reported her missing on July 9, and the police’s Family Violence, Child Protection and Sexual Offences Investigations unit took over. “On July 12, after a community meeting, a search was conducted by community and SAPS in Laingville. A shallow grave was found behind the sports ground, and the body of an unknown female was found. “The next day the body was identified by family members as the missing child Barodine Boyce. A post-mortem will be conducted to determine the cause of death.” Boyce was a pupil at Louwville High School. The school posted on social media: “We are saddened by the news of our learner, Berodine Boyce, whose body was found. “Our sincerest condolences to the family and friends. May God be with us till we meet again! May her dear soul Rest In Peace.” Rural and Farmworkers Development president Billy Claasen said the area was tense, and residents were on the lookout for the killer. Van Wyk said they were also investigating the circumstances leading to the stabbing yesterday. “At about 1pm at Laingville, St Helena Bay, a 37-year-old resident was fatally stabbed. “A murder case was registered for investigation. According to reports the suspect fled the scene after the incident. “Local SAPS members are currently looking for the suspect,” Van Wyk said. Anyone with information about the incident can anonymously contact investigating officer Ernie Strauss at 079 894 0079 or 022 736 8060. Information can also be shared by contacting Crime Stop at 086 001 0111 or SMS Crime Line on 322 111. Meanwhile, in Wellington in the Boland alleged serial killer Johan Williams appeared briefly in court on Friday. Williams is charged with the murder of 21-year-old Chantell Matthyssen and faces another charge of murder, two rape charges and a charge of assault with intent to do grievous bodily harm. Williams allegedly lured Matthyssen to Wellington on June 23 by promising the single mother employment. Matthyssen’s family grew suspicious after communication was cut and then reported her missing. Police found Matthyssen’s body in a shallow grave after an eight-day search, near Aubon Rue Farm. She was strangled to death. Previously, police spokesperson Noloyiso Rwexana said after Matthyssen’s body was found, two more bodies - one a skeleton - were found in the Wellington area. Police confirmed a partially burnt body found on July 4 was that of Maria Isaacs, 33, who also went missing in Wellington, after leaving her home in Malmesbury on June 16 to meet with Williams, also under the auspices of finding employment. The skeleton found is believed to be that of a woman who met with Williams in Wellington during 2012. While police continue their investigation for possible further charges to be added to Williams charge sheet, he will return to court in September.  francesca.villette@inl.co.za   chevon.booysen@inl.co.za  Cape Times