Uyathandwa Stuurman’s body was found with stab wounds on her chest hours after she went missing from her grandmother’s residence in Khayelitsha at about 6pm on Monday night. She had been raped as well. Mvula, 62, said Uyathandwa was a “bubbly child and liked by many people because of her activeness and personality”. Police arrested a 33-year-old man from Harare in Khayelitsha. Police spokesperson Noloyiso Rwexana said: “The child left for home, but she never arrived. The community started searching for her and her clothes were found near a shack, where her body was found shortly after. She had sustained stab wounds to her chest,” said Rwexana. Once the suspect has been charged, he will appear at the Khayelitsha Magistrate’s Court, said Rwexana. Police hailed the positive contribution of partnership policing. “SAPS management encourages the community to join hands with the police in protecting children from ruthless criminals who prey on them,” Rwexana said. Harare Community Policing Forum’s (CPF) Ronnie Busakwe said he will write a petition to the court asking for the suspect not to be released on bail. “We appeal to residents to come to the court in huge numbers on Thursday (tomorrow) to show support to the family,” said Busakwe. In neighbouring Mitchells Plain, Christopher Brown, 25, made a brief court appearance for the rape and murder of 6-year-old Stacey Adams. Brown’s bail application on Tuesday was postponed to August 16. The child had left her residence to visit her mother in De la Rey Street, Eastridge, Mitchells Plain. The girl’s naked body was found next to a wheelie bin in which her bloodied clothing had been dumped. An immediate search was launched by police, assisted by neighbourhood watches, street committees, sector crime forum members and the community policing forum (CPF). Meanwhile, police have appealed to the public to help them locate the whereabouts of 11-year-old Marceline Spandiel. “According to reports the girl was last seen with her twin brother in Belhar train station on July 10. She told him to get on the train with her but he refused and she left without him. During the time of her disappearance she was wearing a blue long sleeve shirt with grey tracksuit pants,” said Rwexana. The child’s grandmother, Cathy Martin, said they were on their way to see their estranged father who lives in the bush around the Tygervalley, Parow area. “After she found out where her father stayed, she visited there before, but she always came home. Last month, I fetched her there with the police.” Anyone with information about the child’s whereabouts can anonymously contact investigating officer Dale Franks on 0721454163 or Crime Stop on 086001011, alternatively SMS Crime Line on 32211. Cape Times