The modus operandi of alleged Metrorail saboteurs was again apparent in today’s thwarted arson attack at Cape Town station – the third in 11 days. This as Metrorail confirmed its passenger numbers have dropped from 630 000 to 500 000 over the past 18 months due to the arson attacks and high level of crime. Today's attack took place at platform 11, two platforms down from platform 13, where carriages were gutted by fire on Saturday. Luckily, Metrorail staffers were able to speedily extinguish the blaze. It’s believed these saboteurs – some have even labelled them “terrorists” – masquerade as commuters, before setting a train carriage alight as it enters a station and then disappearing. Estimating the value of a fire-damaged carriage at between R1.5 million and R6m, Metrorail Western Cape spokesperson Riana Scott said “the trend of setting trains alight was unheard of five years ago”. Mayoral committee member for transport and urban development Brett Herron said it is undeniable that a “sinister force is at work” to destroy the railway system. “When you see trains being burnt three or four times a week, every week in the same manner, it suggests to me that there is someone, some organisation or some force that is seeking to destroy our commuter rail system. "These fires are being set apparently shortly before trains arrive in stations by someone who is on the train. They ignite a fire and exit as the train arrives at the station. It's just too well planned, too consistent and too frequent for it to be random." From mounting costs to commuter safety, 10 things you should know about the recent spate of attacks on Metrorail trains, News24 reported. 149 – The number of carriages lost to Metrorail Western Cape's train fleet since May 2015. R48 million – The amount of money pumped into a law enforcement project by the Passenger Rail Agency of SA (Prasa), the Western Cape government and the City of Cape Town. It is expected to be operational by September. 100 – The number of dedicated officers who will be employed through a project aimed at protecting infrastructure and ensuring passenger safety, which will only come into effect in September. 7 – The number of train fires recorded this year. 8 – The number of trains currently operating on the Central Line. 30 – The number of trains which should be running on the Central Line, which services 33 stations. 1.4 million –  The number of passenger trips a full set of trains could provide per day. R25 000 – The reward payable by Metrorail for any information leading to the successful conviction of a train vandal. 105 – The number of alleged vandals awaiting trial. R172bn – How much government will spend over the next 10 years to improve the rail system. 