Residents of a Bellville flat blaze on Monday, in which a 5-year-old boy died, claim they were unable to douse it because the taps were allegedly locked to prevent people from using too much water. The boy had been on his own at home at the time. Two women are still in a critical condition after jumping from the third floor. Luckily a baby, which had been dropped down by her mother into the arms of man below, escaped unharmed, while a man injured his leg fleeing down the stairs, News24 reported. Charles Ntumba had rushed to the block of flats in Voortrekker Road in vain, but it was too late for his 5-year-old nephew Nabi Mutoke. "I feel like I am in a movie, like it's not real," he said as firefighters mopped up and a pathology van waited for the boy's body to be brought down the stairs. Just a day earlier, they had all been together and celebrating at a wedding. Trying to piece together what had happened, he said his sister and her husband had been out working, while Nabi and his 15-year-old brother were at home with tenants who shared the flat. He believed that the older brother had gone to an internet café and left Nabi at home. A 22-year-old resident, who lived with her 2-year-old daughter and parents a few doors down, said that they had heard screams. She said they had struggled through thick, black smoke to get down the stairwell. "The men in the flats tried to use the taps but (they were) locked," she said, explaining that this had apparently been done to stop people from using too much water. A video circulating on social media shows a woman on the pavement being dragged away. A short while later another woman is seen leaping through the flames, landing on a mattress. A man sweeping glass and dirt away from his café entrance said he had seen one of the women drop the baby down into the arms of a man on the scene. "The woman was too scared to jump. She only jumped when the flames were on her," said the man, who identified himself only as Abdul. Johnson Njoroge, who worked at a furniture store on the ground floor but had not been there at the time of the fire, said it was his wife Ann who had come up with the idea to haul out their new mattresses to act as padding. Police spokesperson Sergeant Noloyiso Rwexana said an inquest into the 5-year-old boy's death had been opened.