This is as scientists predict that by 2050, there will be more plastic in the ocean, by weight, than fish. This year’s theme for the International Plastic Free July campaign is Beat Plastic Pollution and the aquarium has challenged everyone to refuse the top four single-use plastics - shopping bags, straws, takeaway containers (plastic coffee cup lids, cutlery, etc) and plastic water bottles. The public has also been  encouraged to make the pledge on the website, or share it with the aquarium on its social media platforms. Hayley McLellan, an environmental campaigner for the Two Oceans Aquarium, said: “We live in a time where throwing things away has become all too common-place. “The problem is that no one has been able to tell me where this ‘away’ is, and that’s because everything we throw ‘away’ stays on this amazing planet of ours. “We all need to use less single-use plastic and rather re-use what we have, over and over. This makes reusable shopping bags so ideal. "Consumers using them can proudly say that they are not contributing to landfill and litter in the environment, including the oceans.” An exciting line-up has been planned for the whole month, and the aquarium will use its extended platforms to further mobilise individuals, communities, retailers, restaurants, businesses and other stakeholders to commit to stemming the tide of plastic that is choking the oceans. They are doing a massive ecobrick drive in aid of Waste-ED’s “Building a Future” programme. Waste-ED needs 1000 ecobricks to build an outdoor learning space for Levana Primary School in Lavender Hill. By bringing in an ecobrick, Aquarium visitors will be entered into a lucky draw for a R18 500 prize, which includes aquarium membership and experiences, a high-end Sealand Gear upcycled bag, tickets to top Cape Town attractions, vouchers and much more. Aquarium partner Faithful to Nature will host a unique pop-up shopping experience in the aquarium on July 7 and 8. The shop will feature plastic-alternatives and plastic-free products for sale to all Aquarium visitors. Every day the Aquarium will also host a special, interactive presentation on plastics in the ocean. The talk will take place daily at 4pm at the I&J Ocean Exhibit. For today, International Plastic Bag Free Day, shoppers are encouraged to bring 10 single-use plastic shopping bags and get a reusable bag in return.