Nur Arawal, 23, had entered the Malmesbury Mosque and  slit the throats of 74-year-old Ismail Bassa and Ziyaad Haseen Hedick. He  was killed by the police in a tense stand-off on June 14. Hawks spokesperson Hangwani Mulaudzi said Arawal was an outpatient at the Bellville Psychiatric Hospital in 2013 until recently. “The motive for the attack is not yet established but there are no links to suggest any involvement of extremists or radical activity.  Arawal’s remains have been handed over to the family for repatriation and burial,” he said. The circumstances surrounding the death of Araale is being probed by the Independent Police Investigative Directorate (Ipid). Faizel Bassa, who was injured by Arawal  under his left eye, arm and back said his injuries were healing but he was still taking pain medication. “I read their statement and while I have my own opinion on this matter I don’t feel ready to express them at this time nor am I able to speak on behalf of my family. We are taking this day by day. I am speaking to a counsellor and we politely ask that our privacy be respected as we process everything,” he said. Bassa said he would make his feelings known in due course and the family had been overwhelmed by support from the community. The Malmesbury attack came almost a month after  three knife-wielding men stormed a Shi’a mosque in Verulam, north of Durban in, May. Abbas Essop’s throat was cut. He died on the way to hospital. Two other people were injured in the incident. The Muslim Judicial Council's  Shaykh Isgaak Taliep said they were relieved that the Hawks have identified the Malmsebury perpetrator . “Immediately after the incident last month, the MJC hosted the Malmesbury Mosque Committee, the Somali Ambassador, Somali leadership and the Hawks to ensure full co-operation with their investigations. Many rumours have spread via social media and even mainstream media regarding the motive of the attack. “We hope the outcome of the Hawks investigation brings this matter to a close.” Taliep said they prayed that such an incident is never repeated in South Africa.Ipid did not respond to queries by deadline  dominic.adriaanse@inl.co.za  