“I am relieved I can carry on implementing plans for the municipality. I am here to govern,” said Willemse. In relation to this weekend’s planned disciplinary against him, Willemse said he had asked the DA leadership “whether right procedures had been followed” in conducting the disciplinary hearing, after the Western Cape High Court ruled in Mayor Patricia de Lille’s case that the party’s Federal Legal Council, which deals with such matters, needed to be reappointed. “I am still waiting for a response to my question. I also don’t understand why they would institute that process (of disciplinary hearing) in light of what happened in court in the Patricia de Lille case,” said Willemse. Eleven councillors, including two DA councillors, one Knysna Unity Congress and a Cope councillor, voted against the motion while 10 voted in favour. Willemse was expected to appoint his new Mayco members, but by last night, the deadline, the names had not been announced. Willemse survived the same motion last week Wednesday when opposition parties did not attend the council meeting, resulting in the quorum not being reached, after nine (all DA) of the 21 council members attended the meeting. Willemse was voted in as mayor by opposition parties following a motion of no confidence in his predecessor, Eleanore Bouw-Spies. The DA leadership accused Willemse of colluding with the opposition in supporting the motion against Bouw-Spies while the rest of the DA caucus had left council. The motion of no confidence was tabled by the ANC, citing Bouw-Spies’s failure to perform her duties and ensure service delivery in the greater Knysna area, and effective functioning of the council. Willemse refused to step down on two occasions when provincial party leader Bonginkosi Madikizela asked him to resign. Madikizela had charged that Willemse contravened the party’s constitution, siding with the opposition. The DA’s provincial communication manager, Odette Cason, said that disciplinary processes were under way against Willemse. “We will comment after the outcomes,” she said. Cason did not respond on why the party carried out a disciplinary hearing despite the court’s ruling last week. On June 14, Madikizela told the Cape Times that “we are very clear as the party that we can’t have a mayor who was elected in the manner in which Mark was elected”.  sandiso.phaliso@inl.co.za 