The life of the soccer player took a drastic turn when he developed excruciating pain. He thought he had a knee injury and doctors told him to quit soccer. “I struggled every night to sleep and had to sleep with a pillow between my legs to absorb the pain. I’ve been to doctors hoping that they would find what was the problem but no luck. I then went to a radiologist who discovered arthritis on the right hip,” said Francis. Francis and 194 other patients are now happy and healthy after they received free life-changing surgeries thanks to the Western Cape Department of Health’s brainchild Mandela Day initiative, Operations 100. The number of operations have almost doubled since the original target number of 100. The 10 hospitals, including Groote Schuur, Paarl, Mitchells Plain, New Somerset Hospital and Red Cross, performed procedures consisting of 29 hip/knee replacements; 90 cataract removal surgeries (of which 40 were done at Vredendal Hospital); 28 Ear, Nose and Throat procedures; 40 female sterilisations and 8 Gynaecology and Urology procedures. In 2017, the Department’s first project improved the lives of 67 patients (27 hip/knee replacements and 40 cataract surgeries). Zharane Lewin, a two-year-old from Grassy Park, who had a tonsillectomy at Red Cross Children’s Hospital, joined Francis and other patients at a small acknowledgement ceremony at Groote Schuur Hospital yesterday to thank the collective efforts of dedicated and committed staff and sponsors. “It’s a privilege to get the operation for free,” said Francis. “I have had nine operations prior to this and at the end of October this year I was supposed to undergo a surgery. I salute the Department of Health for this and I will not take it for granted. The operation was done on June 29 and on the 2nd of this month I was discharged. To date I have no pain. My family will have a party for me,” Francis said. Zharane’s mother, Yolanda Lewin, said: “ For two years my daughter could not eat and had to drink formula milk. I was told I had to wait for next year when she is three years old The operation was a success and this 100 campaign saved her life; thank you for choosing her.” Western Cape health MEC Nomafrench Mbombo said: “We are privileged as a department to be giving back to the community through this initiative. It warms my heart to see how people’s lives have been changed by these surgeries.” Head of Health, Dr Beth Engelbrecht, said: “With an increasing acute load due to trauma, providing elective surgeries such as hip and knee replacements have in recent years become increasingly sought-after. “Trauma cases demand prioritisation, thus pushing back elective surgery. The Department has added tonsillitis, sterilisation and tympanoplasty. The addition of the ENT surgery gave us the chance to include children in this project, something we all know was close to Madiba’s heart.”