“He always acted in the interest of our people. History imposed on him a heavy responsibility,” said Ramaphosa. People around the globe dedicated 67 minutes to giving back to those in need in true Madiba style, and in South Africa the main event was held at Mvezo, Mthatha, in the Eastern Cape, where the much-loved icon was born. Ramaphosa, joined by Mandela family members and former presidents Jacob Zuma and Kgalema Motlanthe, delivered a keynote address to hundreds of people at the gathering. The area was a hive of activity, with Ramaphosa opening the new Mvezo Clinic. In his address, Ramaphosa said: “To those who are fearful of the prospect of the return of the land to our people, I say fear not, because we are going to handle this matter in the usual way we solve matters in our country - through dialogue and agreement. The restoration of land to our people will unlock the growth of our economy. “Madiba bequeathed us a legacy of fearlessness. He instilled in us the courage to confront difficult issues. The land issue is one such issue, which we should have courage to handle,” he said. He said Mandela belonged to a remarkable generation of young people who fought against the profound injustices and daily indignities of the time. “Madiba was foremost among those who understood that militancy alone could not secure change. It required work and effort. It required tireless organisation, mobilisation and conscientisation. It required women and men of courage to step forward to take upon themselves the most difficult tasks of the revolution. These were tasks that brought no reward, nor recognition,” said Ramaphosa. “It says much about Madiba’s character, his contribution and his commitment that at the young age of 34 he was appointed volunteer-in-chief to lead the campaign for the defiance of unjust laws. “It was this theme - of voluntary and selfless service - that characterised his lifelong contribution to the South African people,” said Ramaphosa. Mandela’s grandson Nkosi Zwelivelile “Mandla” Mandela said: “As a nation he led us from the precipice of racial hatred and the brink of civil war to work together for the realisation of the goal of nation-building, national reconciliation and social cohesion. We remain dedicated to its fulfilment and to devote our lives for its realisation and achievement.” The United Nations General Assembly in December 2017 declared Mandela’s birth date, July 18, as Nelson Mandela International Day. UN secretary-general António Guterres said: “Nelson Mandela was a towering global advocate for justice and equality.” On its part, at its 2013 Summit, the African Union declared 2014-2024 the “Nelson Mandela Decade for Reconciliation in Africa”. Paying tribute to Madiba, AU Commission chairperson Moussa Faki Mahamat said: “Madiba lived a life of great courage and humility devoted to the ideals of freedom, justice, equality, tolerance and reconciliation. “He championed the freedom and liberation of South Africa and the rest of the continent, for which he sacrificed his freedom and dedicated his life. “He was a guiding light, and remains an inspiration to us all as we endeavour to carry on with his legacy of service to humanity.” Opening the new Uitsig Primary School yesterday, Cape Town mayor Patricia de Lille said: “This is in the spirit of Mandela Day where South Africans give what they can to help those less fortunate. “Each year, in celebrating the 67 years of service and sacrifice for our country by former president Nelson Mandela, our country comes together to give their time for charitable causes. “This work goes hand-in-hand with the City of Cape Town’s efforts to build a caring city which encourages partnerships with community organisations.”