CAPE TOWN - The South African Broadcasting Corporation (SABC) has reportedly dismissed 26 members from the department that collects licence fees, according to a report by the City Press. The department is currently at a stand-still after the workers received a notice of their dismissal on Wednesday (2 May) and then participated in what they believed was a legal go-slow, according to the City Press. SABC spokesperson Mmoni Seapolelo explained that the claims made by these employees were false and that they had committed an act of misconduct. This was due to the ‘unprotected strike action’ they participated in which was not in compliance with the provisions of the Labour Relations Act and SABC policies, said Seapolelo. “The SABC management followed all the required prescripts in arriving at the pronouncement, based on the submissions presented before the aforesaid disciplinary process. It is also important that we do not engage in any further detail in the public domain as this matter is still in progress internally,” Seapolelo said. Currently, only a small amount of staff are left in the licence division at the broadcaster, impacting on its revenue collection, City Press reported. In other SABC news, in March Members of Parliament raised concern about relations between workers and board members and management of the SABC after meeting with labour unions. “It is concerning that a sub-committee of the board has had only one meeting with unions in order to find solutions to challenges faced by employees since appointment of the new board," said the chairman of Parliament's portfolio committee on communications, Humphrey Maxegwana in a statement after the meeting in Johannesburg. Relations between workers and management have been tense after employees and journalists at the broadcaster blew the whistle on censorship and financial irregularities at the cash-strapped state-owned entity. READ ALSO: MPs meet labour unions over tension between workers, SABC board READ ALSO: FNB launches SA's first biometric mini-ATM TOP STORY: Steinhoff CEO pays share-backed loan worth R26 million - BUSINESS REPORT ONLINE