This was after a local non-profit organisation (NPO), Khusela Ikhaya, launched the Bonteheuwel harm reduction project. The area has a backyard dwelling population of about 6500. Fires during winter have claimed the lives of several backyard dwellers in Bonteheuwel and surrounding areas. The City reported 209 fires in the first two months of this year, which affected 801 informal dwellings, compared to the 248 fires that affected 628 structures during the same period last year. There have been 12 fatalities in the first two months of this year as a result of informal settlement fires, compared to 17 during the same period last year. The survivors of a devastating fire in Firethorn Street in Bonteheuwel this month were some of the first backyarders to have their homes painted. Resident Susan Job said the seven families had new structures and had returned home after they were left displaced after the fire. “The fire started at the wendy (house) of a young woman who has epilepsy, who uses candles. “She had an attack and it fell over. Seven wendys were destroyed and a four-year-old suffered facial burns and was released from Tygerberg Hospital last week.” She said residents were grateful for the project, as it would help prevent such a tragic event from happening again. Khusela Ikhaya founder Ashley Stemmet, brand ambassador Scarra Ntubeni, a Stormers rugby player, staff and management from Philip Morris International have all painted homes in Bonteheuwel. The NPO was launched in 2007 with the goal of reducing the spread of shack fires by applying intumescent paint to the outside of homes in at-risk areas. To date they have painted about 2000 homes. Bonteheuwel community worker Elizabeth Lingeveld said: “This project by Khusela will give people the chance to not just save their and their family’s lives, but perhaps maybe even their belongings. “When Mr Stemmet came to us with this project, we were very happy and more so that the painters involved all came from the community and were backyard dwellers themselves.” She said 20 members of the community, including women, had come aboard to help paint the structures. Stemmet said the Bonte-
heuwel project had exceeded its target of painting 75 homes, and was initiated to raise awareness around accidental fires. “The Bonteheuwel project is a first for us as we have mainly focused on informal settlements and not ‘backyarders’. Bonteheuwel has a history of fire outbreaks, particularly in backyards containing ‘cluster dwellings’. “It is here that we aim to make a difference with the assistance of funding from Philip Morris International,” said Stemmet. He said their initiative was also to educate residents about fire safety, while also uplifting spaces through the application of colour. A home can burn out in just three minutes, Stemmet pointed out.  For more information on the Khusela Ikhaya project, visit them on Facebook or email info@khuselaikhaya
projects.org 