From June 13 to 30 the show #JustMen calls on men to unite, take a stand and tackle the problem head-on, at the Baxter Golden Arrow Studio. Directed by Heinrich Reisenhofer (Joe Barber, Suip!) it has a cast which include Loukmaan Adams (Aunty Merle The Musical, Kat and the Kings), Thando Doni (Ityala Lamwele, Ubuze Bam), Sherman Pharo (Suidooster, Vinkel en Koljander) and Johan Baird (Sewende Laan, Generations). Reisenhofer said this was a conversation that every South African could no longer avoid and a piece every man needed to see. “This is a very personal project for me about bringing healing and transformation into the theatre space and engaging a brave and vulnerable conversation about men taking responsibility, not just for the men we want to be, but the kind of world we want to be part of. "We call on men to engage critically, to have honest conversations about what we mostly avoid talking about. “It has become clear that we need to transform our responsibility, accountability and behaviour around the culture of male abuse of women and children,” said Reisenhofer. He said together with his cast, they devised the play through a rigorous workshop such as the Mankind Project and Imbadu Men’s Project, spanning four weeks of research and rehearsals. The worldwide outbreak of the #MeToo disclosures and the frequent cases of abuse, rape and murder perpetrated against children and women in South Africa and other countries have reached explosive and unacceptable proportions. For the past seven years, Reisenhofer’s personal journey has taken him into the arena of healing and personal transformation work where he has been training and working as a coach and facilitator. Baxter chief executive and artistic director Lara Foot said: “We would like to invite all men, and especially leaders, captains of industries, managers and staff in business, government, organisations, academia, sport and all sectors, to come and see and support this vital work. “The need to start open 
discussions, take ownership and outlaw this horrific scourge has become urgent. ‘‘Become part of the movement to help transform our society into a safer and healthier environment.” #JustMen has an age restriction of 16 years, tickets cost R120 and booking can be made through Webtickets and selected Pick *  Pay stores. For discounted group or block bookings, contact Leon van Zyl at 021 680 3972 or e-mail at leon.vanzyl@uct.ac.za