Nzimande conducted a site visit at the level crossing following the deaths of seven people killed when a Metrorail train collided with a bakkie at the crossing. The preliminary investigations shows the bakkie was following a taxi on Frederick Road, parallel to the railway track, approaching the Buttskop level crossing. Western Cape regional head of the Passenger Rail Agency of SA (Prasa), Richard Walker told Nzimande the collision could be put down to human error as the driver of the bakkie tried to cross the level crossing just after a taxi went over, ignoring warning signals. It’s the same level crossing at which 10 children were killed in August 2010 when a taxi driven by Jacob Humphreys collided with a train. Nzimande said an urgent short-term solution must be devised to prevent any further lives being lost at the crossing. “What is of concern is what is being done in the medium term when this place is proving to be a slaughter place? “Something needs to be done quicker,” Nzimande said. Walker said various authorities would have to be engaged to fast-track a solution. “We have a level crossing elimination programme and so far we have eliminated seven of the 43 level crossings in the region. “We have built bridges over the level crossings and in the long run that would be the solution,” Walker said. According to acting chief executive of the Rail Safety Regulator Tshepo Kgare, the train driver adhered to all safety precautions while crossing. “Footage showed that the driver was approaching the crossing at 80kph. “He applied the emergency brake when he saw the bakkie crossing.” Resident Willem Martin voiced his concern during the visit. “During the 38 years that I have lived in this community, 27 lives have been lost at this crossing. We were told a bridge would be built over the crossing but nothing has been done,” Martin said. Hours before the site inspection, the body of Heinrich Carolus, 36, was found metres from where the accident took place. He was allegedly stabbed to death. Carolus was visiting his family in Gaylee, Blackheath and was murdered on his birthday. “We are not yet entirely sure how the incident happened. “Seeing him lying there is very sad,” a family member said. Police spokesperson FC van Wyk said a murder case would be opened. Anyone with any information about the incident can contact Crime Stop on 0860010111 or SMS Crime Line on 32211.  chevon.booysen@inl.co.za 