CAPE TOWN - Photo-sharing app, Instagram is reportedly planning on adding a music feature to its app. A code was discovered inside Instagram’s Android app, reports Tech Crunch. The code is reportedly a new functionality which will allow for users to add music to their Stories. How the new feature will work is users will be able to search for a song which is called “music stickers” and then add it to their post. The photo-sharing app is also reportedly testing a feature that will automatically spot a song that you listening to and it will show a label with the name of the artist name and song title. In other Instagram news, the photo and video-sharing app received a makeover earlier this month which was announced at Facebook’s F8 conference. The conference which took place on May 1 revealed that Instagram has updated their features. These include video calling, AR filters, a redesigned Explore page and a new anti-bullying feature in the comments section. One of these features is video calling to direct messages. Live video has been a popular feature on Instagram, and now the social network is taking that one step further by adding video calling to direct messages This will allow users to talk one-on-one or with a small group of people directly through the service. To use this feature, You will have to tap the camera icon at the top of a Direct thread. Augmented reality effects that are similar to Facebook AR features will be available on the platform. These AR effects will allow users to build face filters and effects. They can then try out filters they see used by other accounts in their Stories feed. Additionally, third parties will be able to create custom filters. Zuckerberg announced that Instagram is debuting filter partnerships with Ariana Grande, BuzzFeed, Kylie Jenner, and the NBA. READ MORE: Instagram gets a makeover, see what's new ALSO READ: WhatsApp calls are R3 cheaper than normal calls - Report TOP STORY: Capitec Bank disputes FNB claim on biometric ATM - BUSINESS REPORT ONLINE