Maistry was born with the disease, which usually affects both eyes and causes a gradual decline in vision due to 
corneal oedema (swelling) and clouding. In her case, the vision had deteriorated until she became blind in one eye. Through a unique public-
private partnership between Tygerberg Hospital and the Slick Restaurant Group's social responsibility initiative, "Giving a Helping Hand to Someone in the Dark", Maistry underwent life-changing lamellar corneal transplant surgery on May 10. An overwhelmed and excited Maistry said: “By the grace of the Lord I can see.” Maistry also expressed her gratitude to the Slick Restaurant Group and the doctors for restoring her sight. Leonard Heydenrych, who received specialised training in lamellar corneal surgery at Moorfield’s Eye Hospital in London, performed the successful surgery on Maistry, who is still recovering. The surgeon had to use only two layers of the donor cornea, leaving donor tissue for a possible second operation. Heydenrych will be passing on his skills to Dr Derrick Smit, Tygerberg Hospital’s full-time corneal surgeon, who will become proficient in the surgical procedures and skills transfer to other surgeons. Lamellar corneal surgery has been available in South Africa in the private health sector for a few years, but has not been freely accessible to indigent patients in state 
hospitals until now. Due to the shortage of local donors, the donor cornea for the operation was imported from the US at a cost of R22000. Corneal transplant surgery, whereby all five layers of the cornea, from outside to inside, are replaced, has been performed at Tygerberg Hospital for several decades. There is, however, a long waiting list of patients for various ophthalmic surgical procedures, due to limited resources and scarcity of local donors. Good results are obtained with full-thickness transplants, although the recovery period typically lasts for several months before optimal vision is restored. Currently, the new state-of-the-art technique is mostly being used in the developed countries. Ian Halfon and Doron Duveen, directors of the Slick Restaurant Group, and Belthazar, Balducci and Gibson’s Gourmet Burgers at the V&A Waterfront became involved with the corneal transplant project at Tygerberg Hospital a few years ago. Company donations, together with help from generous customers at their three restaurants, assist with the funding of corneal transplants and essential specialised equipment at Tygerberg Hospital. This included a R200000 specular microscope, the first of its kind at Tygerberg Hospital, that enables the surgeon to view, photograph and assess the inner cell layers of the corneas of patients. It will enable operations to take place on a more frequent basis, and Tygerberg will soon be able to help totally blind people. Donations can be made at slickrestaurants.com/social-responsibility