To date, 300 direct jobs and 120 indirect jobs have been created and 80 000 tons of steel have gone into local industry and been exported to the USA, Tanzania, Kenya, Mozambique, Namibia and Zimbabwe, among others. When the company, based in Kuils River, previously owned by Murray and Roberts, closed its doors eight years ago, 360 jobs were lost. In 2012, Turkish company DHT Holdings took ownership to expand and upgrade the steel plant, which produces steel from scrap using electric arc furnaces. Economic Development Minister Ebrahim Patel said: “When I first visited these premises a number of years ago, the place was shut down, it was a building that was scrapped. “Through the
entrepreneurship, you’ve turned an empty space into a productive place.” Patel said scrap metal, pieces of iron and used steel were a national resource. “For many years this resource was unutilised, with the advent of industry,
foundries and steel mini-
mills. “We are going to use it for the production of steel
products. “We’ve seen, over the last 10 years, exporting of raw steel in the form of scrap metal, transformed into steel products that go into the infrastructure of other countries. “Mr Turanli saw an opportunity to help South Africans take our scrap metal and turn it into steel products that we can use in our infrastructure,” he said. Local foundries and steel mini-mills had been under pressure for a number of years due to unavailability of scrap metal, a vital feedstock, due to a surge in the export of scrap metal. The reopening of the Cisco factory follows the introduction of a trade directive issued by Patel that provides local steel mills with greater access to scrap metal through a price preference system that favours local industry. “The president had put a target for R100billion fresh investment over the next five years so we can expand factories, mines, hotels and other workplaces to create jobs for South Africa’s people,” he said. DHT president Dagistan Turanli said: “We have started this project in 2012 and have always had the support of
the Economic Development Ministry. “I was here prior to 2012; you said grab opportunities here. We are continuously working to add value to raw material sourced in South Africa.”  nicola.daniels@inl.co.za 