“I had always enjoyed working with people and assisting. I joined the medical field at the age of 19. I was a permanent employee in the oncology nurses’ department, which was a cancer department at the Baragwanath Hospital, now known as Chris Hani-Baragwanath Hospital,” said Ntshuntshe. She was later employed at Groote Schuur Hospital in 1982, where she was the second black registered nurse. Ntshuntshe spoke to the Cape Times at Groote Schuur Hospital yesterday, where 80 former nurses who had worked at the hospital for 30-50 years were celebrated. “We had to have permits to work here, and I can say it was a pleasure to have worked for 32 years at this hospital because I acquired a lot. “I furthered my studies in oncology nursing science and obtained my diploma while working at the hospital. From 1990 I was in charge of the female wards and clinics,” she said. Ntshuntshe said she was inspired to work hard as the hospital appreciated having black nurses who could interpret for patients. “The patients were also happy to have people who could understand them. In 1985 we inspired more black nurses to join, and even in other Western Cape hospitals we saw an improvement. “I am content with my 46 years in the medical field. A nurse never retires because we still care and advise people in our communities. We still have to care for our families. “This generation has no excuse. If we could do it, so can they,” she said. Another former nurse, Prilli Stevens, 78, said she’d had the honour of working with Dr Chris Barnard in
the transplant unit as ward assistant. “The whole time I was here, I had the joy of working with different staff and special patients. I am happy that today we are gathered here and the hospital is still grateful for the valuable contributions we made.” The head of nursing at Groote Schuur Hospital, Achmat Mohamed, who made history in 2016 by becoming the first male head nurse at the hospital, said: “We need to celebrate the contribution of the former nurses because this hospital would not be where it is today without them. “We say to all the nurses in the world, happy International Nurses Day, we see your hard work.” The hospital will host a variety of events this week, building up to International Nurses Day on Saturday.