“We understand there is no point of arresting the small fishes while there are sharks. We want to clean the Western Cape streets. "We are not sending the army as the police are sufficient Plans to deploy more police units in province are in the pipeline and we cannot reveal other plans we have. "Cape Flats issues are our priority hence I have visited areas like Hanover Park,” said Cele. Mbalula announced last year that he had requested the SANDF to be deployed in the Western Cape and Gauteng to help crack down on violent crimes. Mbalula had promised that  by Christmas, the army would be deployed to areas worst affected by gang activity. Cele’s plans to combat crime and drugs in the province have been met with mixed reactions by community leaders. Cele said he had met with the Western Cape’s police top brass and in three weeks they will have a workshop to deal with the drug issues and gang violence in townships. “We can not allow our youngsters to die. Macassar and Samora Machel are the immediate stations that are needed. "Two weeks back I visited the Samora site, and speaking to the police they informed me around June and July work would begin at the site. "Although crime has been rife we have made several arrests and had success. Around Nyanga precinct we are training 126 more TRT (tactical response team) members to be able to respond to crime and violence. The training usually takes a year.” Community leaders said their cries for government intervention had fallen on deaf ears as more bodies were piling up on Cape Flats streets. Manenberg Crisis Forum chairperson Roegshanda 
Pascoe that said about 13 people had been killed over the weekend. “Being told the Cape Flats would be prioritised is not new; we are tired of the government making excuses while innocent people are being killed. "We do not feel safe and free in our own areas and yards. It is just hard for people to move freely, especially children, without fearing for their lives. "The government must stop playing politics with people’s lives,” said Pascoe. She said they would only believe Cele’s plans once they were implemented. “The government needs to rebuild our communities; we still have state guns in our streets. "Break-ins, rape and murder: these all stem from gang violence. We want an emergency declared. People are traumatised,” said Pascoe. Nyanga community policing forum (CPF) spokesperson Martin Makasi said: “On behalf of CPF Crossroads, Nyanga East, Philippi, Browns Farm and other areas we accept and appreciate the plans with hopes they will 
be implemented not just 
on paper. “The only dispute we have is the time line: in March we told them to please fast-track the project for both Samora Machel and Macassar police stations. We have been waiting for more than 20 years and we cannot wait for 36 months.” Makasi said they were also encouraged by the fact more police would be deployed. “We want the minister to target problematic areas such as Browns Farm and Samora. "Community members have been encouraged by these news; some have even volunteered to assist in crime fighting by joining patrols and neighbourhood watches.”