The Wolfgat Conservation Centre was a hive of activity and excitement as girls from Heideveld, Strandfontein and Manenberg gathered for the annual Princess Project party hosted by 20-year-old Shanice Appels from Mitchells Plain. The Princess Project is currently in its fourth year. It started out as a dress-up day, to let girls in the Cape Flats feel special. But Appels said the project has blossomed into an empowerment workshop, helping girls to rise above their circumstances. Appels decided on the Princess Project as a celebration honouring the legacy of her late mother. “We celebrated the growth of our girls and the fact this is now an empowerment movement for the girls from Tafelsig, Heideveld, Strandfontein and Manenberg. It was a day for the girls to have fun and forget about all the struggles that they go through,” she said. The girls were given a short make-up session, Appels said, as “often young girls have a false opinion of what beauty is and I want to help change that and make them see that they are beautiful just as they are despite society’s opinion of what beauty is”. In the lead-up to the party, Appels put out a call for donations of sanitary towels to the project, saying that many girls grow up in homes where they cannot afford them and this strips them of their dignity. “The response was overwhelming. At first I thought we would not get that many donations, but people really supported the drive and it went above what I thought “We got donations from far and wide and local organisations also came forward to assist. We are truly grateful,” she said. Appels said the project has allowed her to cultivate a relationship of sisterhood with the girls, who may have to grow up in dire circumstances and sometimes without a mother or maternal figure. “This project has really made me gain little sisters in these girls. This is not an initiative where, just for one day, we come together to take pictures for social media. "My bond has grown with these girls and we get together often and share ideas and dreams with each other,” Appels said.  chevon.booysen@inl.co.za 