Cleophas had longed to own his own business and achieved his dream through support provided by Umoya Energy, part of the Department of Energy’s first Renewable Energy Independent Power Producer Procurement (Reippp) programme, which operates as a bid window. The Reippp has been operational since 2013. The wind farm generates enough electricity to power about 65 000 low-income homes, and about 27 000 medium-income homes. Cleophas attended the Umoya Energy funded training programme during 2014 and is now using these skills to benefit Hopefield residents, through his own company, Cleo Construction. “I believe that every person deserves the chance to build a career. With the Home Improvement Project, I was able to go to college and find a job, build my career and start my own business,” he added. Cleophas is one of 19 previously unemployed Hopefield residents who completed skills training courses designed by Northlink College. They were provided with electrical, plumbing and carpentry training, and the project offered the chance of employment to make use of these skills. The training is coupled with an Entrepreneurship Incubation Programme that provides mentorship and business skills. Cleophas previously worked as a plumbing artisan on the programme. Having gained both work experience and business mentorship, his bid for the carpentry contract was successful. Veronique Isaacs, regional community operations manager for Umoya Energy, said: “We are so pleased to be able to share Heinrich’s story, which demonstrates the unique attributes of the Home Improvement Project, which transitions and grows artisans into entrepreneurs. “The project’s enterprise development programme is designed to develop skills of local businesses to be sustainable and ensure enduring benefits for the people of this community.” A recent study to measure the social impact of the Home Improvement Project, which has benefited about 3000 residents within the Saldanha Bay Local Municipality, confirmed its success. It demonstrated that the project was effective in improving the living conditions of residents in low-cost homes. Some 99% of the study’s residents affirmed this.