This new role comes after he fully regained his sight following treatment by the clinic. The dog, now known as Zorg, and his new owner, Lindi Theron, are helping the organisation advocate for the assistance of the public to raise much-needed funds after they recently lost their main funder. In this financial year, the donor reduced their funding by 64%. The funding will be reduced further when the clinic loses the full amount of R2.2 million per year. Sharing Zorg’s story, the clinic said the pup arrived at the Mdzananda Animal Clinic in Khayelitsha at six weeks of age, completely blind due to a herpes virus. His owners did not know what was wrong with him and did not know how to look after a blind puppy. They also asked the clinic staff to find him a more suitable home. The tiny pup received nursing and care at the clinic, where he healed and fully regained his sight. He then went to a foster home where he stayed until he was adopted. By now still only eight weeks old, Zorg was adopted by Lindi Theron, from Brackenfell. Theron saw the dog on Mdzananda’s Facebook page and said she immediately fell in love. “When I saw his little face I knew I had to bring him home. I said to my husband in Afrikaans, ‘Ek wil vir hom sorg’, and that is how we got his name, Zorg,” she said. “I’ve been following Mdzananda’s work ever since I adopted Zorg. They recently announced that they have lost their main funder and I was horrified. I knew I had to help.” Marcelle du Plessis, from Mdzananda, said it was scary for them losing their main funder. “They were covering around 65% of our monthly expenses, leaving us now in an extremely difficult financial situation. "We are, however, extremely grateful for the support and funding they were able to give us over the past years. We are trying to be as proactive as possible and to not let the funding loss get our spirits down.” They launched a campaign called “Become a #PawMember” on March 27 with the aim of signing up 3000 Paw Members, each donating R100 per month. Lindi Theron and Zorg have signed up as Paw Members, donating R100 per month. To assist the Mdzananda Animal Clinic and sign up as a Paw Member you can visit 
www.mdzanandasecure.co.za or contact them on info@mdzananda.co.za Cape Times