The campaign travelled more than 1000km to towns including Clanwilliam, Swellendam, Zoar and Slanghoek (near Rawsonville). Liam Devenish, with several medical students of the Students’ Health and Welfare Centres Organisation (Shawco), began the 750km for Health, or the #750kmforShawco, campaign as part the NGO’s 75th anniversary celebrations. Through partnering with community-based farmworkers’ and women’s organisation Trust for Community Outreach and Education (TCOE) and Land Rights Forum, the campaign brought much-needed medical services to some of the province’s rural communities. Mawubuye activist Reinette Heunis said the initiative had been successful and was well received. “The community got the opportunity to see doctors and receive services and treatment for a wide range of ailments and conditions. Women were trained to become community health liaisons and will receive more training in future to help their communities,” said Heunis. TCOE co-director Lungisa Huna said community members had been anxiously awaiting the arrival of the medical students. She said one woman had never had a test for cancer, and was unsure and nervous about the medical tests. Apart from free health-care services in the greater Cape Town metropole, Shawco also has an Education Sector and Academic Interventions Programme. The NGO also provides after-school education, literacy and numeracy programmes to 1300 pupils, and tuition in maths, physical sciences, life sciences, accounting and English to an additional 520 pupils in grades 10 to 12. Shawco Health president James van Duuren said they intended expanding their partnership with TCOE. The two organisations would seek funding to make this a reality. “The services provided, which included health promotion, Pap smears, diabetes tests, HIV tests and vaccinations, among others, are a part of our regular Shawco Health offering. “We thank the volunteer doctors, nurses, occupational therapists, dentists and audiologists who joined us on this journey,” said Van Duuren. Shawco wants to raise R75million through their fund-raising drive. To donate, see www.shawco.org or e-mail gavin.joachims@uct.ac.za  dominic.adriaanse@inl.co.za 