They claimed metered taxi drivers were behind the alleged assault which saw other Uber drivers being chased away. The drivers said they were being targeted by metered taxi drivers for transporting passengers to the airport, allegedly without permits. Zuko Tyalasha said: “One driver came to inform me and other drivers how they were being rudely chased away and their keys confiscated. “Myself and other drivers drove the complainant back to the airport because we wanted to witness this ourselves. “When we got there, metered taxi drivers were standing in the pick-up area and stopping Uber drivers from picking (up) their clients, claiming they don’t have permits and they will impound their vehicles. “However, even those who had permits were being chased away.” Uber spokesperson Samantha Allenberg said: “We respect drivers as valuable partners with a voice and a choice, and understand they are frustrated. “However, this needs to be solved through open dialogue and not by disruptions to a commuter’s day. “Drivers can speak to us at any time about their individual concerns. We have a number of established communication channels.” David Drummond, for the metered taxi industry, said: “We condemn any type of violence and call for a solution. I believe the attitude of metered taxi drivers comes after the new amendment bill for taxis was introduced two weeks ago. “I was informed police did step in and tried to solve the problem by allowing the drivers to operate on the other side of the airport. “We are concerned that this can happen again, so the City must step in and all parties must engage.” Meanwhile, Siphesihle Dube, spokesperson for Transport MEC Donald Grant, said hearings into the conduct of taxi associations operating in Delft were scheduled to begin next week. “These hearings may result in the suspension or deregistration of certain associations. On an enforcement front, they’re already conducting operations,” Dube said. “So far, these operations have seen over 30 taxis impounded for operating illegally in the area.” This comes after tensions in the area last week following a spate of deadly shootings, which led to Delft Taxi Association boss Nazeem Daniels and two others being killed.