Activists stated this as they aimed to raise awareness of the state of these schools ahead of the upcoming Zonnebloem Schools Festival. They have also questioned why the post-apartheid government chose to classify all the schools in the area as Quintile 5 - which means they get less funding from the government despite most children being commuters from the townships. Schools in the poorest communities are classified as Quintile 1 and schools serving the wealthiest communities Quintile 5. Chris Otto Foundation Trust project director and festival organiser Karen Breytenbach said: “As a small public benefit organisation, we noticed when we became involved with the primary schools on the Zonnebloem College Estate 18 months ago that there were a number of funding challenges the schools in this area were grappling with.” The make-up and dynamics of these historic schools had changed over time as a result of the District Six forced removals, she said. “Whereas they were community schools in the past, they are now mainly commuter schools, with about 80% of learners travelling here daily from the townships and Cape Flats. The families that send their children here daily from far away are fairly low-income, but they are parents who care about their children’s
education enough to make this
sacrifice. “We and other NGOs and PBOs have become involved out of necessity - these schools are well run by passionate teachers and principals, but due to the limited parental and state resources they have access to, there is a great need for external support. Resourcing has, sadly, not improved much here since 1994, despite it being such an important area in our history, and they need help,”  Breytenbach said. Zonnebloem Boys’ Primary School principal Deon May said the school was classified a Quintile 5 school but serviced the most socio-economically vulnerable, and the majority were Xhosa pupils from the greater Cape Town area. “We are a state school on private property and our buildings are leased. The state does not fund the major maintenance and upkeep of the buildings. We only have a small budget for repairs and maintenance,” he said. “As a Quintile 5 school, we budget for the essentials such as textbooks and there’s normally nothing left for library books or other learning and teaching support material that’s also essential.” Provincial education department spokesperson Jessica Shelver said MEC Debbie Schäfer agreed with activists regarding the improper quintile allocation of these schools and many other schools across the province and has raised the inequity of the National Quintile System on several occasions with the national minister since 2014. “The quintile system was introduced through the publication of the National Norms and Standards for School Funding in 1998, and schools were identified per quintile based on the poverty levels of the areas at that time. Obviously, time has evolved and socio-economic situations have changed, thus resulting in many schools being unfairly classified as Quintile 4 and 5, yet in reality they serve poor communities,” she said. According to Shelver, the 2017 National Poverty Distribution Table allowed for 40.3% of Western Cape pupils to be allocated to no-fee schools. “Ultimately, more than 40% of our schools should be 
classified as no-fee, but we will not receive the funding for these additional schools as we have to prescribe to the above allocation. As a department we have little room to manoeuvre.” However, the department, out of its own allocation and with no additional funding from the national government, was supporting 218 Quintile 4 schools by making them no-fee schools, Shelver said. The Zonnebloem Schools Festival takes place on Saturday on the Zonnebloem College Estate, and is a collaborative initiative between the Zonnebloem Boys’ and Girls’ Primary Schools and Children’s Art Centre on the property, and various PBOs or NGOs, artists and members of the community, to bring new and old communities together  and to raise funds and awareness. Tickets are sold online at plankton.mobi, or see Facebook: https://www.facebook.com/ZonnebloemFestCT2018/