The NGO’s managing director, Jade Jacobsohn, has urged South Africans to exchange books with each other, read a book or participate in activities encouraging literacy. Nal’ibali literacy mentors across the country will host public book exchange events in all mother-tongue languages, where everyone is being asked to bring and swop a book, enjoy storytelling and read-aloud sessions, and to find out more about how they can read and share stories effectively with their children. Jacobsohn said there was no substitute for books in the life of a child. She shared the belief of much-celebrated writer 
Stephen King that books are “portable magic”. “All South Africans are being encouraged to participate, to exchange books with each other, to read a book or participate in an activity that would encourage literacy,” she said. Those who bring books to the exchange venues would receive a special sticker to be placed on the inside cover. The sticker would provide an opportunity for the previous owner to inscribe their name and location before passing the book on. “We’d like to encourage South Africans, across every age, to host their own book exchanges. “We have posters and stickers available for download from our website. “We recognise and respect the power and potential of communities in literacy development, and are working to build a nation of people who are interested and passionate about storytelling, reading and writing,” said Jacobsohn. “We want to ensure that every child has at least one reading role model who uses reading and writing in meaningful ways with them, who encourages them to read, and who supports them through 
the provision of books and other literacy materials,” she said. Jacobsohn said children who were surrounded by print and immersed in great and well-told stories, in languages they understood, were more curious, confident and motivated to learn. She said Nal’ibali (isiXhosa for “here’s the story”) is a national reading-for-enjoyment campaign seeking to spark and embed a reading culture across the country, so that reading, writing and sharing stories 
in all languages used in South Africa became part of everyday life. She called on people to sign up as Funda - leader volunteers - to Nal’ibali’s volunteer network on the Nal’ibali website (www.nalibali.org and
www.nalibali.mobi) or on Facebook and Twitter: nalibaliSA