He is being celebrated by Metropolitan under the #WeSeeYou campaign for his successes that have over the years been propelled by the actions and support of others. The recently launched #WeSeeYou campaign celebrates and profiles the stories of people who have achieved success thanks to the support and assistance they have been given. It also empowers financial services consumers to attain similar successes in their own lives. Msibi is one of five South Africans being celebrated. The 34-year-old was last year appointed as the dean and head of the School of Education at the University of KwaZulu-Natal - making him the youngest dean and also the youngest executive member of the Southern African Comparative and History of Education Society. “The campaign showcases how people can be successful in whatever they are doing, and that what they are doing really matters,” said Msibi. Born in the Zululand district municipality town of Ntabamhlophe, his path into academia was not planned. It was the combination of his inquisitive mind and the opportunities presented to him that resulted in him pursuing his passions and taking up a Fulbright Scholarship to study overseas. Now, with multiple degrees under his belt - including a Bachelor of Education degree (UKZN), a Bachelor of Education Honours (UKZN), a Master of Education from Columbia University and a PhD from the University of Cambridge - Msibi uses his platform to encourage young people to commit to their studies, challenge stereotypes associated with their race or gender, and make changes in their communities that they can look back on and be proud of. Msibi said he drew his inspiration from a deep desire to do more to improve the livelihoods of others, and was passionate about education, social justice and the liberation of the black child. “I find often that people’s aspirations are limited by the unavailability of opportunity. As such, my endeavour is to in some small way be one of the instruments that can give hope and opportunity so that our people can have their dignity once more restored,” he said.