Hosted by the Metro South Education District together with Green Shoots, education directors, circuit and curriculum managers, and principals attended the School Management: Data Informed Decisions Conference to encourage and support a maths online curriculum experience, and highlight the value data can add to teaching and learning. Metro South Education District curriculum coordinator for Grades R to 9 Lorraine Bailey said 52 630 pupils were accessing the maths online curriculum, most of whom were in the south district. “We have always had teachers using the chalkboard to teach maths. This programme boosts teaching, and gives teachers insight into what pupils are struggling with.” Bailey added that the programme complemented the curriculum pupils were following. The Department of Basic Education’s implementation strategy for e-education in South Africa 2013 to 2025 allows for the integration of information and communications technology (ICT) into all levels of the education and training system to improve the quality of teaching and learning. Bailey said analysis was key in improving pupils’ performance, and the programme generated data for each pupil. “School management now knows what to focus on. Now there is something tangible for teachers to work with. The conference was about driving data use forward in the district, which is leading in the province when it comes to this.” Green Shoots is a Cape Town-based NGO that specialises in innovation within the ICT education environment to uplift and empower schools, teachers and pupils. They develop and design tech-based education projects and implement a CAPS (national curriculum and assessment policy statement). Since its formation in 2012, Green Shoots has supported 186945 pupils, 3224 teachers at 228 schools and after-school centres in the country. They especially work with schools with poor infrastructure, children learning in a language other than their mother tongue, and child-headed households. They make use of individual log-ins and real-time feedback, and parents and guardians can also access the feedback so they have the information they need to support their children.  francesca.villette@inl.co.za 