Masehela holds a PhD in apiary studies and works as a scientist at the SA National Biodiversity Institute (Sanbi) at Kirstenbosch Botanical 
Gardens. His experience in research covers pollinator deficit assessments, crop pollination, honey bee forage resources, apicultural practices and plant ecology. Masehela said his appointment was overwhelming. “I think it also shows a bit of a shift and accommodation space and growth within the industry. “Beekeeping, like most of the farming industry, has historically been predominantly a white space, especially in terms of leadership. “I think (the appointment) shows huge growth and openness and accommodation to other races. “This is an ageing sector. Most of our beekeepers are into their late sixties or early seventies, so it’s very difficult to find young guys coming in, and especially young guys of colour. “The government has tried to push beekeeping development projects in certain areas, but most of them have not been too successful.” Masehela said he had developed a love for nature from a young age. “I come from a family that has a lot of creatures. But for me it was about the love of nature in general, and I became interested in the various aspects of conservation. “When you grow up, you play with plants here and there, and insects, although I didn’t like bees much - we are mostly afraid of them. “But it was only when I came to Sanbi that I got involved in a few projects that had to do with pollination of agricultural crops. “That’s where I started interacting a little bit more with insects, rather than plants, and bees caught my eye,” Masehela said. The importance of these small creatures in nature was significant, he added. “In the natural environment they pollinate quite
a few indigenous plants. They are important for those 
plants to carry on into the next generation. “But for our food crops, in particular, a lot of studies have shown that they pollinate about 50 crops that we rely on as food. "It’s quite substantial for food security,” Masehela said. The local bee population faced various challenges, including a lack of forage, and the impact of the recent drought. “At the moment, the industry is facing quite a few big challenges. "Forage is the backbone of beekeeping. If you don’t have forage, we don’t have healthy bees. If you don’t have healthy bees, then you don’t have good pollination for agricultural crops.” He also said the industry was tackling the theft of 
honeycomb. “People break down the hives and steal the honeycombs and, in some cases, even set fires because they try to smoke the bees out, and the fires get out of control. “It is quite a big issue in most areas, including Klapmuts, Sir Lowry’s Pass, Wellington, Stellenbosch and Durbanville,” he added. Other issues at the top of Masehela’s list to tackle in his new position include the training of beekeepers and transformation within the 
industry. Western Cape Bee Association executive committee member Nura Conroy said: “On behalf of the WCBA we would like to thank Danie Vorster, the outgoing chairperson, for his leadership and ongoing commitment and support. “A warm welcome to Dr Masehela, the new WCBA chairperson. Tlou is a diplomatic and level-headed leader. “Tlou has already made inroads in the bee industry through his input on the bee industry strategy in conjunction with the Department 
of Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries. “We are looking forward to supporting Tlou in his term as chairperson.”  lisa.isaacs@inl.co.za 