Phando Jikelo, Cindy Waxa and Ayanda Ndamane stand a chance of walking away with a prize of R15 000 each and a trophy at a prize-giving ceremony in September. The finalist will automatically be provided with certificates of recognition. The annual awards, hosted by the Publishers Support Services (PSS), are in recognition of excellence in South African journalism and open to all photojournalists who draw their attention to people and events around them. PSS received hundreds of submissions, of which dozens of stand-out contributions 
were selected as finalists from 14 categories. Journalists and photographers face danger every day when doing their jobs, but that does not deter them from getting the pictures needed for their publications. Jikelo is not new to winning awards, recently taking  the Andrei Stenin International Press Photo Contest for a front-page picture of a Grabouw housing protest, produced while part of the Cape Times team. He has since transferred to ANA. He won a Standard Bank Sikuvile award for his feature titled  “Blind and in Despair Amid Hardships” last year. Jikelo, who is a finalist for a picture he took of Zuma mocking parliamentarians, said it was inspiring to be a finalist. “It feels great. I could see the consistency of my photographs being recognised. “To me that shows growth and improvement. “To be a finalist in such major awards shows, I am a winner already. I am very happy my work is recognised.” Jikelo said the Zuma picture told of a government official who stood firm regardless of the seriousness of allegations and opposition parties calling for his resignation. “He never admitted to the allegations against him,” said Jikelo. “It is inspiring to get an opportunity to take photographs of a president. The support I am getting from my colleagues is enormous,” he added. Waxa said she felt honoured to be a finalist for her variety of pictures detailing the plight of migrant pupils, who were being taught at a double-storey building in Dunoon because they could not be admitted by local schools. Some of the pupils joined the school in order to rewrite certain subjects as they were having difficulties in understanding languages taught at schools in the area. “As photojournalists, we are the eyes and ears of the public. We have a duty of telling the untold stories to those who don’t have access to them,” she said. Waxa thanked the PSS for granting her and others the opportunity to enter the awards. Ndamane, who is a finalist for a picture of a student being manhandled by police during a Fees Must Fall protest, said: “It has all the elements needed in a good picture and shows the struggle the students had to go through, the arrests and brutality, before fees were finally stretched. “Being recognised shows as photojournalists there is something positive we are doing. As photojournalists we will continue doing what we do best and tell stories of ordinary people whose stories would have not been widely told,” he said. ANA regional content manager Courtney Africa said: “How fortunate we are to have such immense talent in our ANA photographic stable. All three are seasoned photographers who have had success in numerous previous competitions here and abroad. “We are extremely proud of them. They would always go over and above what is required. No office hours are kept by these three. “Their passion shines through in their images and their success in this competition so far and others is a testament to their formula of hard work and their dedication to photojournalism. “We would also like to thank the Independent (Media) titles which provided the space for their images to be used appropriately, and the gifted journalists they work with. “We wish them all the best in the finals, they are winners in their own right.”