The sixth Khumbulani Pride event on Saturday  saw about 300 people march to highlight the struggles and challenges of LGBTIQ people. Organisers cited the recent deaths of Okuhle Bixa and Noxolo Xakeka as the reason for hosting the event in Delft. Bixa, a lesbian, was shot dead in Delft in October last year, while Xakeka, a lesbian from Lwandle, Strand, was stabbed to death in January. The event was previously held in Gugulethu, Langa, Khayelitsha and Strand.  https://www.facebook.com/CapeTimes/videos/1797064200351373/  The march commenced at about 11am when a memorandum calling for justice for victims of hate crimes was presented to officials, and was followed by a programme of music, poetry and speeches. Triangle Project Community Engagement and Empowerment Programme manager Sindiswa Thafeni said young and old supported the march. “We had a group of kids maybe between the ages of six and 10 that wanted to join us and carry a banner. These kids said they wanted to be part of the march. “A community leader, who is also a pastor, said he likes what we are doing, and wanted to work with our organisations more closely; he said it was no use working in silos,” Thafeni said. It was also important that parents be roped into awareness campaigns as lessons of respect and inclusivity often started at home, Thafeni said. “Part of the aim of the march was to speak to the community itself, to encourage all to stand together and promote inclusivity. “It’s important to speak to parents themselves, this is why we had gogos there. These are our custodians of culture - if people see that, they see there is nothing wrong with the LGBTIQ community and can say: ‘Let’s stand with them, let’s stand up against this crime.’” Free Gender chairperson Funeka Soldaat said supporters from the West Coast, Paarl and Strand attended. She said it was key that communities were united against hate crimes, that authorities took these crimes seriously and that the full might of the law was exercised against perpetrators.