At least 2 200 demonstrators were wounded, the Palestinian Health Ministry reported, after the attempt by Palestinians to cross the border fence separating Israel from Gaza quickly turned violent. It was the bloodiest day since the campaign of demonstrations began seven weeks ago to protest Israel’s economic blockade of Gaza, which had already left dozens dead. The protests took place as the US embassy was formally relocated to Jerusalem from Tel Aviv, on the 70th anniversary of the formation of Israel, amid formality and celebration that created an almost surreal contrast to the violence raging barely 60km away. This fulfilled a pledge by US President Donald Trump, who has recognised the holy city as the Israeli capital, but it has fired Palestinian anger and drawn criticism from many foreign governments as a setback to peace efforts. At the embassy inauguration ceremony, Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu thanked Trump for “having the courage to keep your ­promises”. “What a glorious day for Israel,” Netanyahu said in a speech. “We are in Jerusalem, and we are here to stay.” Trump, in a recorded message, said he remained committed to peace between Israel and the Palestinians. He was represented at the ceremony by his daughter Ivanka and his son-in-law Jared Kushner, US envoy to the Middle East. Kushner said it was possible for both sides in the Israeli-Palestinian conflict to gain more than they give in any peace deal. “Jerusalem must remain a city that brings people of all faiths together,” he said in a speech. France and Britain called on Israel to show restraint, and UN secretary-general Antonio Guterres said he was “deeply concerned” by events in Gaza. Other responses to the violence were stronger. Regional power Turkey accused Israeli security forces of carrying out a massacre, and said the US embassy move had encouraged them. The NGO Human Rights Watch said: “The policy of Israeli authorities to fire, irrespective of whether there is an immediate threat to life, on Palestinian demonstrators in Gaza, caged in for a decade and under occupation for a half-century, has resulted in a bloodbath that anyone could have foreseen.” Tens of thousands of 
Palestinians had streamed to the coastal enclave’s land border, some approaching the Israeli fence - a line Israeli leaders said Palestinians would not be allowed to breach. Clouds of black smoke from tyres set alight by demonstrators rose in the air. Demonstrators, some armed with slingshots, hurled stones at the Israeli security forces, who fired volleys of teargas and intense rounds of gunfire. “Today is the big day when we will cross the fence and tell Israel and the world we will not accept being occupied forever,” said Gaza science teacher Ali, who declined to give his last name. Trump’s recognition of a contested Jerusalem as Israel’s capital in December outraged Palestinians, who said the US could no longer serve as an honest broker in any peace process with Israel. Palestinians seek East Jerusalem as the capital of a state they want to establish in the occupied West Bank and the Gaza Strip. Israel regards all of the city, including the eastern sector it captured in the 1967 Middle East war, and annexed in a move that is not recognised internationally, as its “eternal and indivisible capital”. Most countries say the status of Jerusalem - a sacred city to Jews, Muslims and Christians - should be determined in a final peace settlement, and that moving their embassies now would prejudge any such deal. Peace talks aimed at finding a two-state solution to the conflict have been frozen since 2014. The killings have drawn international criticism since the series of protests began. More than 2 million people are crammed into the narrow strip, which is blockaded by Egypt and Israel. The Trump administration says it has nearly completed a new Israeli-Palestinian peace plan, but is undecided on how and when to roll it out. Palestinian Prime Minister Rami Hamdallah yesterday accused the US of “blatant violations of international law”. “Choosing a tragic day in Palestinian history (to open the Jerusalem embassy) shows great insensibility and disrespect for the core principles of the peace process,” Hamdallah wrote. In London, the British
­government said it had no
plans to move its Israel embassy from Tel Aviv to Jerusalem, and it disagreed with the US’s decision to do so.