The City of Cape Town’s informal settlement management and clean-up staff, contractors and emergency response teams have been working tirelessly to assist fire-affected residents in Khayelitsha and Philippi. The City said in a statement on Tuesday simultaneous operations have been under way and enhanced emergency fire kits are in the process of being issued to all affected by the informal settlements staff. "The two affected informal settlements – Kosovo in Philippi, and Silver Town in Khayelitsha, – have been serviced simultaneously. Thus far most of the enhanced fire kits have been issued to the fire-affected residents. "Approximately 70% of the kits have been delivered to residents in Silver Town and 90% of the kits have been issued to residents in Kosovo. "The transportation and distribution of these kits, which comprise large components for dwelling structures, has been a major operation and the teams are working hard to issue the remainder of the kits as soon as possible. "Before the kits are delivered, the sites are cleared of debris, levelled if required and an extensive survey and verification process of the affected people is undertaken." The first fire occurred in the informal settlement of Silver Town, Khayelitsha, in the early hours of Saturday morning, which affected 342 households. In a separate incident on Sunday, a fire occurred in the Kosovo informal settlement in Philippi, where about 120 households were affected. "Donations have been pouring in to the Khayelitsha fire station from concerned residents and the City thanks everyone for their willingness to help,’ said the City’s Mayoral Committee Member for Area East, Anda Ntsodo. "There has been an overwhelming response from residents to calls for donations to assist the fire-affected residents. There is still a need for household items such as blankets, bedding, curtains and clothing. "A huge thank you to the many residents, corporates and organisations who have stepped up and contributed to relief efforts. The drop-off points for donations are Wynberg, Khayelitsha and the Strand fire stations," said the City’s mayoral committee member for Area South, Eddie Andrews. Residents are asked not to donate perishable items, especially bread, as there is no facility to store these items safely. "In the last financial year, the City spent approximately R30 million on emergency materials and has made significant improvements to the emergency fire kits that are issued to victims. Our informal settlements department is a leader in providing these kits to fire-affected people. "For instance, the enhanced kits now consist of 25 zinc sheets; 14 wooden poles which are fire-treated; three packets of nails; a door; door hinges; a window frame and a window. These quality materials provide adequate and immediate shelter to destitute families. "What our teams have managed to achieve in this short space of time, and under extreme pressure, is significant. We could not be more grateful to our informal settlements staff and contractors on the ground for going above and beyond the call of duty to assist these residents in a time where they needed it most’, said the City’s mayoral committee member for informal settlements; water and waste services; and energy, Xanthea Limberg. "Our minds cannot comprehend the loss that these families have experienced but we are grateful that we could at least provide them with the physical materials to start rebuilding a home. "The City encourages the community to be vigilant of potential fires and to work with the City in an effort to reduce the occurrence of preventable fires and the unnecessary loss of life." The City has made the Mayoral Relief Fund available and the details for donations are: Nedbank, account number 1158667043, branch code 198765, ref A009.