Cape Town - A six-year-old girl and her 67-year-old nanny have been killed after a young driver, who allegedly jumped a robot, rammed into them while they were standing on a pavement.Cops have launched a manhunt for the driver of the white Golf 3, who fled the scene on Strandfontein Road. Relatives of little Shaylynn Arendse says the child had been in Maureen Arendse’s care since birth and now they have died together. Shocking pictures of the accident, along Strandfontein Road and 5th Avenue in Lotus River, were shared on social media, which has rocked both families. On Thursday, 27 September, the Strandfontein Primary schoolgirl asked to visit Maureen, whom she fondly referred to as “Mamma”. Her grandmother, Brenda Tommy, shared what had been relayed to her by Daniel Thomas, 66. It is understood Shaylynn and Maureen were headed to Pick 'n Pay in Lotus River. Thomas, related by marriage to Maureen’s cousin, David Abrahams, 77, had been sitting in his car about 2pm when he witnessed the tragedy. Brenda explains: “They were standing on the pavement when this driver lost control of his car after he jumped a robot. When he tried to swerve, he went onto the sidewalk. “Shaylynn was thrown into the air and she had died before she landed on the ground. They said she had brain damage. “She was in Grade R. She was such a bubbly child.” Maureen was rushed to hospital after suffering multiple injuries and died after arriving at Groote Schuur Hospital. Now David is calling on authorities to make the road safer. “This road, day and night, you can hear the crashes and I often have to call the police and we as senior citizens will be having meetings with the mayor regarding this road,” he says. Police spokesperson Constable Wesley Twigg says: “This office can confirm that a culpable homicide accident is under investigation after a six-year-old girl was knocked over by a vehicle in 5th Avenue, Strandfontein. “A 67-year-old female sustained injuries and was admitted to hospital. “The driver of the white Golf 3 failed to stop and is being sought.” Daily Voice