The City of Cape Town is continuing the roll-out of pressure management technology to various parts of the water supply network. The City said on Tuesday this is to ensure that Cape Town uses water in the most efficient way possible. Pressure-related work will be taking place as follows – Tuesday: Goedemoed, Country Place, Sonstraal Heights, The Crest, Wellway Park East and Klein Nederberg from 6pm to midnight; Tuesday and Wednesday: CBD, Gardens and Zonnebloem from 6pm to 3am; Wednesday and Thursday: Protea Valley, Van Riebeekshof and Door de Kraal from 4pm to midnight. "Pressure management is helping with the metro’s water conservation effort and to adapt to the new normal of water management. It also reduces leaks and pipe bursts by better ensuring that pressure remains within levels that the pipework can tolerate, and reduces the rate of loss from leaks and bursts," the City said. Meanwhile, average dam levels in the Western Cape have declined slightly for the first time since the end of the winter season, Lisa Isaacs reported. The latest figures show average dam levels in the province stand at 65.7%. At the same time last year, levels stood at 36.5%. Theewaterskloof Dam is still above 58% full, and Clanwilliam Dam is at 98% full. Dams supplying Cape Town have decreased slightly to 75.2%. The greatest ongoing concern remains for the Karoo region, where the average level for dams is standing at below 20%. Local Government, Environmental Affairs and Development Planning MEC Anton Bredell said water scarcity remained one of the single most important challenges facing the province. Bredell addressed the Western Cape-Bavaria Regional Co-operation Seminar in Stellenbosch yesterday. The seminar dealt with Environmental Technologies in the water sector, with a focus on information sharing between stakeholders. “The Western Cape government has identified water and climate change as provincial risks. The province has been implementing mitigation actions, including tasks like clearing alien vegetation, the treating of wastewater and ensuring additional bulk waterworks, but more needs to be done,” Bredell said. He added that the three-year drought had been a catalyst for change in the way people thought about water in the province. “We experienced radically changing perceptions and real behavioural change among consumers over a very short period. "This contributed to the province getting through this crisis. We now need to explore how we can capitalise on the opportunities created by the drought in building a long-term sustainable, water-efficient and resilient society,” Bredell said. The City, meanwhile, said the slight decline in city's water levels was due to evaporation caused by the hot and windy weather over the past week. Average water consumption, however, decreased from 563 million litres a day to 556 million litres a day for the past week. The permitted usage under Level 5 restrictions is 70 litres a person a day and the Level 5 tariffs are still on the higher end of the tariff scale. The Department of Water and Sanitation said it had noted with serious concern the dwindling water levels in Oudtshoorn in the Little Karoo region. Department spokesperson Sputnik Ratau said the dire situation in Oudts­hoorn had not improved. “The situation is exacerbated by higher temperatures. The Koos Raubenheimer Dam, which supplies water to Oudtshoorn is at 49.13%,” Ratau said. Tips for pressure management * Please store only up to 10 litres of water for essential usage if required. Residents are urged not to stockpile large volumes of municipal water. This is because, if there are any significant service interruptions, they are not expected to be in effect for long periods * Please also keep taps closed to prevent water damage in the event of water being restored after a disruption. * Please always check with your neighbours whether they too are experiencing low water pressure or intermittent supply disruptions as this would in all likelihood be pressure-related. If the problem persists for an unreasonable period of time, please send an email to water@capetown.gov.za or call 086 010 3089, WhatsApp 063 407 3699 or SMS 31373 (max of 160 characters).