In all, nursing malpractice affected the quality of life of 69% of the victims, with 43% requiring additional surgery and 25% left with disabilities. Stellenbosch University Department of Nursing and Midwifery’s Professor Ethelwynn Stellenberg said civil claims owing to nursing malpractice in private hospitals were a growing problem. She studied the factors in nursing that lead to civil claims. The first phase, focusing on the private sector, has been completed and resulted in two students obtaining their Master’s degrees. The second phase, concentrating on state hospitals, is under way. Stellenberg found that contributing factors in malpractice cases included nurses’ failure to follow guidelines and the poor monitoring of patients. “The quality of care is declining, in both the state and private sectors.” Not only is the increase in the number of claims troubling, but also the scale, with many amounting to millions of rand. In the end, these costs are passed on to the consumer, Stellenberg added. Most of these cases were settled quietly, with 74% of them settled out of court, Stellenberg found. The study paints a bleak picture of nursing care in private hospitals. Stellenberg found staff were taking less and less initiative, and sub-standard appointments were being made in critical care areas, like theatres. With care workers performing the functions of nursing staff in many cases, Stellenberg recommended that care workers or sub-optimal staff not be employed in acute-care hospitals, as a basic premise. The study mainly focused on Gauteng and the Western Cape. In total, 79% of the patients were forced to stay in hospital for longer. Topping the list of factors that contributed to civil claims was the failure to follow guidelines (91%), a lack of knowledge (75%), poor monitoring of patients (69%), failure to administer prescribed medication (66%), failure to respond to clinical signs (63%) and insufficient training (52%). Stellenberg noticed an alarming lack of interpretation among nursing staff. They wrote down readings of machines monitoring patients, but wouldn’t necessarily pay attention to basic nursing care, like doing a physical examination after back surgery to make sure patients have sensation in their feet and legs. In some cases, specific complaints about this issue were ignored, with serious consequences. Registered nurses were involved in 87% of the cases. “This should raise a red flag,” Stellenberg said. “Not only is the state sector under pressure, but also the private sector. We are burying our heads in the sand if we think that nursing in private hospitals is better than in state hospitals. “We will have to apply pressure to ensure safe and quality care for patients. Profits can’t be pursued at the expense of the patient. Integrity and ethical leadership are critical.” Cape Times