Minimally invasive heart surgery is on the up, according to Netcare Union Hospital, resulting in a reduced hospital stay and recovery time Heart valve repair and replacement surgery have conventionally been done by dividing the entire breastbone, as part of a procedure known as a sternotomy, to gain access to the heart. The nature of the surgery is an extensive procedure with a recovery time of between six and eight weeks, and even longer in some more complex cases. Managing director of the Netcare hospital division Jacques du Plessis said Dr Kaveer Sohan and his team have successfully performed a series of minimally invasive mitral valve repair surgeries via much smaller incisions than traditional open surgery. Sohan and his team have collaborated with Dr Jacques Scherman, a cardiothoracic surgeon who practises at UCT Private Academic Hospital and Groote Schuur Hospital. Du Plessis the new approach to heart valve repair has formed part of an initiative to develop a minimally invasive heart surgery centre. “We are most gratified that Dr Sohan and his team have developed this surgery centre at the hospital, which will be of great benefit to our patients in the region who qualify for these new approaches to heart surgery,” Du Plessis said. Eddie Hammond recently had a diseased mitral heart valve repaired by means of the right mini-thoracotomy and after a thorough assessment of his condition at the hospital’s heart centre, it was recommended that the newly introduced approach be used in his case. “Mr Hammond recovered quickly after the procedure and was in good spirits and mobile the following day. He was discharged from hospital after five days and reports being pleased with the outcome of the operation. He also said that he was most grateful that this option was available to him." Sohan said potentially life-saving minimally invasive aortic heart valve replacement procedure, in which diseased heart valves are replaced with artificial valves, are also undertaken through smaller incisions and share the same advantages as the minimally invasive heart valve repair procedures. They are undertaken using a mini-sternotomy through an incision of between 5cm to 7cm.