Each desk was manufactured at one of the Eco-Furniture factories, a project of the Department of Environmental Affairs. These factories, managed by SANParks and supported by municipalities and private companies such as MTO, create quality wooden products using material harvested from alien invader trees. SANParks operational support manager Amelia Maree said: “The Eco-Furniture factories create a great environment for collaboration. “We have the support of industry such as MTO, and SANParks acts as the agent. It shows that everyone can win, including our natural world. “By removing alien trees and converting them into school desks, the eco factories are encouraging change across several spheres in South Africa. It’s something to be very proud of.” A core part of this network is the Graskop Wet Mill in Mpumalanga. An MTO site, the mill is now being used for free by the Eco Furniture Programme. Here alien invader trees are brought in and cut, after which the wood is dried with kilns in Ga-Rankuwa, Gauteng. There are seven factories, with a possible extension of the programme in future to support other initiatives such as the construction of houses from alien invasive material. Hired and transported from nearby communities, workers at the factories are being trained and skilled in a variety of trades, including tree harvesting, mill operations and carpentry. While the project currently focuses on school desks, it also produces other products, such as eco-coffins. Water-hungry invaders such as eucalyptus, aka bloekom trees, are targeted for removal: teams are trained to cut and transport the trees, as well as to process them at the mill. MTO forestry environmental manager Jan Huyser said: “MTO has been involved since 2014. We mainly supply the wet mill that is used in Graskop, and the invader trees are supplied from our adjacent plantations and private land. “It has been a fantastic relationship, and the level of overall quality and benefits in what these factories create is excellent. “Today it’s about school desks, but in the future we can expect even greater things.” Cape Times