The families, with 16 children, were forced to seek refuge at the Central Methodist Church in the CBD, claiming they were intimidated and received death threats by a newly formed group, the Blikkiesdorp Joint Committee (BJC). They have been Blikkiesdorp residents since 2009. The families, supported by the Right2Know organisation, said they would lodge an urgent court application seeking an order compelling the City to reinstate the homes in which they lived or, alternatively, provide safe accommodation, should it not respond to their letter. Blikkiesdorp has been a scene of violence in the past months, with vigilante attacks and homes petrol bombed. Ettienne Claasen, a member of the old BJC, said: “I was informed that two more families are also facing evictions. Their fate will be discussed in a meeting. We cannot afford more people here. We are begging the City to help us. How long must we stay crammed in the church?” Alison Tilley, of the Right2Know Campaign, said: “The City must ensure that the families are able to access and complete the subsidy forms that are going to be distributed in Blikkiesdorp this week (and) bring eviction proceedings against the unlawful occupiers of the families’ homes; ensure the safety and security of all of its lawful residents; take such steps as may be necessary to ensure that Blikkiesdorp is effectively policed against criminal acts of violence and vigilantism.” Mayco Member for Urban Development Brett Herron said: “The City has done a survey of all the potential beneficiaries in Blikkiesdorp, with the aim to accommodate everybody in the new housing development, based on the National Housing policy criteria, as the land where Blikkiesdorp is located will be incorporated into the Cape Town International Airport precinct. "We have identified two sites, located along Symphony Way, that can be developed for state-subsidised Breaking New Ground (BNG) housing, to enable the relocation of Blikkiesdorp residents.” He said the planning of these developments is at an early stage. Mayco Member for Informal Settlements Xanthea Limberg said the City manages the settlement and all databases pertaining to the legitimate residents residing in the settlement. “City staff are monitoring the situation, however, the City continues to engage with the South African Police Service (SAPS) who have the duty and the mandate to maintain law and order,” said Limberg.