Western Cape Community Safety MEC Dan Plato says he has an understanding of the problems that led to division within the DA caucus and believes it will be resolved on his first day as Cape Town mayor. He also intends to alleviate the plight of residents buckling under the steep tariffs the City introduced. "If there's one thing I can give you my word for, it is that I'll fix 99% of (the problems in the caucus) by November," Plato told News24 in an interview. Plato said he met with councillors daily to understand what led to the breakdown in the caucus. "A good leader always consults before making decisions to try and understand the complexities behind issues." Division has reigned in the DA caucus for a year, which led to the caucus failing to vote along party lines in a motion of no confidence in the council on the fate of Patricia de Lille, who steps down as mayor at the end of the month. Trumpeted as the best-governed metro in the country, the City lost its clean audit status for the first time in half a decade. Plato previously served as Cape Town mayor between 2009 and 2011, but was careful not to blame De Lille for the breakdown in trust in the City's caucus. However, he thought the DA was "too compassionate" when it dealt with the De Lille saga. "Look at the ANC who suspended a mayor for calling (President Cyril) Ramaphosa a sell-out, she was suspended two days later. "The DA doesn't do things that way, we give people a chance to explain themselves; to allow a full investigation to be completed," he said. "We are perhaps too compassionate in this manner, and there will always be people who criticise us, but we believe in the humanity of people above all." Plato said De Lille was offered a "different government position" when she was asked to resign, but was unwilling to disclose which position was offered to her and whether she accepted it. He said one of the first issues he planned to address when he becomes Cape Town mayor was the steep tariffs the City introduced. "Last weekend at church, an elder came to me and said where he used to pay around R200 or more for electricity and water, it is now in the thousands." Plato said his mayoral committee "will definitely be reshuffled", but he will not start with a "clean slate". It is unclear whether mayoral committee member Brett Herron, seen as a De Lille ally, will be included in the reconstituted committee. The mayoral committee will also be expanded and more portfolios introduced, Plato said. "As it currently stands, and I've said it before, I think the mayoral committee lacks specialisation, a member doesn't have the space to become an expert in their field." The City's current consolidated mayoral committee structure was introduced with De Lille's Organisational Development and Transformation Plan in 2017, which was later criticised by DA caucus members. "Look at someone like JP Smith, who heads the portfolio of social services, health and security. What does JP know about health?" Plato asked. "Mayoral committee members have to jump from one meeting about safety to the next one about health, which means they have divided attention." Other key projects within the City of Cape Town, such as the Foreshore freeway project and inner-city housing project, will also continue, pending the necessary approval from the City caucus, Plato said.