The City of Cape Town’s Safety and Security Directorate on Monday "set the record straight" over the ongoing reports and concerns that have emanated from a dispute with unions representing staff in the Fire and Rescue Service. The City said in a statement that "this is not a wage issue but an issue specifically relating to monthly allowances". The South African Municipal Workers Union (Samwu) and Independent Municipal and Allied Trade Union (Imatu) have now declared a formal dispute. The matter is going before the Bargaining Council at the end of October for conciliation. In the event that this fails, a formal arbitration process will follow, which could take several months to finalise. "In recent weeks there have been numerous media reports about unhappiness within the service as well as comments in the social media landscape that have resulted in misinformation being peddled as fact and creating anxiety in the public sphere around the ability of the Fire and Rescue Service to deliver on its mandate," the City said. "Under the current collective agreement that was signed in 2007, unions representing firefighters agreed to work 24-hour shifts that equate to a 56-hour week. "As this is higher than the regular 40-hour work week, unions further agreed to a 22,8% allowance over and above their basic salary to account for the additional hours. "By way of explanation, the shift pattern for firefighters is: Week 1: two shifts = 48 hours; Week 2: three shifts = 72 hours; Week 3: two shifts = 48 hours. This pattern then repeats itself and averages to 56 hours per week over the year. "On weekdays, firefighters do active duties like training, drills and equipment maintenance between 09:00 and 18:00. For the rest of the time, they are required to be present at the fire station until their shift ends at 09:00 the following day, but, unless there are call-outs, this is considered down-time. During down-time, staff members take turns to man the ‘watch room’ for incoming calls. "On weekends, active duty is from 09:00 until 13:00, with the rest of the hours considered to be standby time. More details on the collective agreement: http://resource.capetown.gov.za/cityassets/Media%20Centre%20Assets/Fire%20collective%20agreement.pdf "The City and the unions agreed to a facilitation process to review the collective agreement and, following this process, the City offered to increase the standby allowance to 30%, but this was rejected by the unions. The facilitator had recommended a 35% allowance, which was also turned down. "The unions, Samwu and Imatu, have now declared a formal dispute. The matter is going before the Bargaining Council at the end of October for conciliation. In the event that this fails, a formal arbitration process will follow, which could take several months to finalise. "As things stand, Imatu’s members are willing to continue working in terms of the existing agreement. Samwu, however, has indicated that it will be withdrawing from the collective agreement on 5 November 2018, at which point its members will only work shifts equating to a 40-hour week. "The City will be communicating with Samwu to try and get agreement that it will honour the existing agreement, like Imatu, until the arbitration process concludes. "The City of Cape Town values the contribution of its employees and recognises that strain that comes with working shifts, as is the case in the Fire and Rescue Service, but also other agencies like the Metro Police Department, Law Enforcement and the Traffic Service. "The administration is committed to resolving the allowance issue as speedily as possible; however, our appeal is for firefighters to honour their current working conditions until such time as the arbitration process has been finalised. "The City assures residents that contingency plans are in place to mitigate any staffing issues that may arise while the dispute continues. "Earlier this month, several fire stations were short-staffed for part of the weekend amid an unprecedented number of employees calling in sick – related to the dispute. This was a one-off occurrence and the situation has been addressed. "For the time being, the City has also halted operations at the Fire and Rescue Service Training Academy so that existing firefighters participating in advancement courses can be available for active duty. "Our planning for the warmer months also continues in earnest. As is the custom, we will deploy 120 seasonal firefighters by 1 December and we also have agreements in place with other firefighting agencies and municipalities, as well as aerial support that forms a crucial part of our vegetation firefighting efforts." Yesterday, Samwu provincial secretary Sidney Flusk said: “We rejected the City’s offer of a 30% increase. We are going for less working hours to force the City to offer a bigger percentage. "We want firefighters to work a 40-hour week, then all additional hours are overtime, with a maximum of 10 hours’ overtime. Then they work a 12-hour shift instead of a 24-hour shift.” Flusk said firefighters were “extremely overworked. The employer demands they work overtime because the City’s fire and rescue services are understaffed”. Samwu had lodged a labour dispute and was waiting for a date. A firefighter who asked to remain anonymous told the Cape Times they were working 240 hours but were only getting paid for 160 of them.