Heyns was killed on Tuesday when his helicopter crashed while battling the blaze, which has scorched about 5000 hectares. The teams of firefighters made excellent progress on the ground despite the sweltering 38°C temperature, according to incident commander Reinard Geldenhuys. “The SANDF Oryx has been operational since this morning, water-bombing the area, and we have additional aerial resources inbound from WOF. “Nine structures have been lost, with two being destroyed in the last 24 hours. The ninth house has yet to be confirmed. Other ground units have been deployed in the area, looking at flare-ups and hot spot areas,” he said. Large areas of sustainable-harvest fynbos and wildlife grazing have been lost. WOF has expressed its sadness over Heyns’s death, describing him as a respected, highly dedicated pilot and long-standing friend of the firefighting fraternity. He was well known for going beyond the line of duty. Heyns has helped fight countless fires including the recent 2106 Cape St Francis and last year’s Knysna fires. The Garden Route Municipality said several serious flare-ups were continuously battled in conditions of extreme heat. More than 100 firefighters from the Department of Environmental Affairs’ WOF programme as well as a Huey helicopter, a SAAF Oryx, one spotter plane, two bomber planes, each with a 3 000-litre capacity, were deployed to assist in containing the Vermaaklikheid fire. Donations for firefighters can be dropped at the Handelshuis in Riversdal, Pitstop (R305), Engen Stilbaai, Engen Heidelberg, Engen Albertina and Op die Plaaspadstal (N2). The Cape Winelands District Municipality fire services were also still battling a fire in the Groot- Winterhoek mountains, outside Tulbagh. The fire was sparked by lightning on Tuesday. By yesterday, the municipality reported that the left flank had been contained and the right flank was on fire, with a fire line of 4km which was being fanned by strong, gusty winds. Spokesperson Jo-Anne Otto said aerial support had been requested. “Wind conditions have subsided, allowing the helicopters access. Aerial support and ground teams are working together to contain the fire.” SA National Parks (SANParks) said rangers were among teams on the fire flank of a nearby plantation between Tsitsikamma National Park and Port Elizabeth. SANParks spokesperson Nandi Mgwadlamba said: “Resources are split between helping our neighbours MTO (Forestry) to contain the fire in the plantation and on evacuating hikers through escape routes on the Otter Trail. “Eight hikers are being evacuated by a head ranger and team from the Otter Trail. The smoke from the plantation is confirmed to stretch as far out as Clarkson. "The Storms River rest camp remains unaffected and is accessible and open to visitors.” Cape Times