This is despite objections from the public and the SA Democratic Teachers Union (Sadtu). Minister of Basic Education Angie Motshekga requested the minutes of yesterday’s proceedings in the legislature as she asked that the issue be treated with sensitivity. The changes in the bill mean, among others, schools may permit the sale and consumption of alcohol on public school premises; pupils found guilty of serious misconduct may be sent to intervention facilities; and it makes provisions for the establishment of collaboration schools and donor-funded schools - a clause that Sadtu said threatens the independence of schools and pupils’ quality of education. Acting chairperson of the committee on education, Lorraine Botha, yesterday referred to the bill as a “pro-poor piece of legislation”, but Sadtu has rejected the notion. Motshekga’s spokesperson, Elijah Mhlanga, said the bill may impact the education environment in the province. “The minister will request the records from this morning’s proceedings to determine what exactly transpired in the legislature before she is able to comment comprehensively on the matter. “At a meeting earlier this year held between the minister and the Western Cape Education MEC (Debbie Schäfer), it was agreed that these matters needed to be treated with sensitivity,” Mhlanga said. ANC education spokesperson Theo Olivier and Sadtu provincial chairperson Jonovan Rustin said they would each engage with their lawyers to see how they could legally challenge the adoption, as the bill would be detrimental to poor pupils. Olivier said they would approach the National Council of Provinces to weigh their options. “The DA is going ahead with this despite what the people say. This is a complete setback in the fight for equal education,” Olivier said. Rustin said the committee was inconsiderate of citizens, and their reason for adopting the bill was simply to push the DAs “narrow-minded mandate”. Botha said the adoption of the bill was significant in that it “will go a long way to ensure that young people are educated in a way that enables them to meaningfully contribute to society”. “In light of the proposals made in the bill which seek to amend aspects of the Western Cape Provincial School Education Act 12 of 1997, a balanced and holistic approach was applied before the bill was finally adopted after months of consultation between various stakeholders in the province,” Botha said. She said during yesterday’s meeting the ANC and the African Christian Democratic Party (ACDP), were not prepared to consider any change to the current Western Cape Provincial School Education Act 12 of 1997. Cape Times