This is according to NGO Ikamva Labantu founder Helen Lieberman as the world marks International Older Persons Day today, turning the spotlight on the plight of many elderly people. Ikamva was launching its “Celebrate Seniors” awareness campaign, to celebrate the day and highlight the stories and daily struggles of vulnerable older persons in the townships and celebrate and acknowledge their contribution to society. Lieberman said the many hardships that they still faced today, including elderly abuse, food and financial insecurity, and lack of access to health care, should be acknowledged. “The old-age grant is the primary source of income for the majority of the elderly in South Africa. Many older persons stretch this money (R1 600 per month) to support their children, grandchildren and even great-grandchildren - often feeding their families before themselves,” said Lieberman. The co-founders of her organisation’s Seniors’ Programme include Phumla Ndaba, Tutu Gcememe and Lulama Sigasana, who are award-winning community leaders active in the fight for democracy, and who have worked alongside Lieberman to advance the rights of older persons. Ikamva’s network of 19 senior clubs provides more than 1000 elderly people with psychosocial support, health monitoring and screening, daily nutritious meals and exercise programmes, training and income-generating activities, capacity-building workshops on health issues, assistance with access to specialised health care, and assistance with applying for government grants. The organisation’s communications officer, Gemma Cowan, said: “We work also with children, as well as with families.” The City’s Social Development and Early Childhood Development Department will host 200 senior citizens from across the city at a two-day event to be held in Retreat tomorrow and Wednesday. Also in attendance will be the Cape Peninsula Organisation for the Aged, the SA Social Security Agency, the Department of Home Affairs and the SAPS. “Many times we forget that older people come with a wealth of experiences and skills. They have often lived through situations that others would find unimaginable. “It is for this reason that we need to care and support our elders and use these lifetimes of experience to enrich our lives,” said mayoral committee member for Safety and Security, and Social Services, JP Smith.