Cele on Monday visited the grieving family of ANC councillor for Ward 101, Luyanda Mbele, who was shot and killed in Wallacedene while sitting in his car around 9pm on Sunday. His cousin, Mzwandile Mathenjwa, was also shot and killed when he apparently tried to stop the gunman. Mbele’s killer pumped three bullets into his body, according to his devastated mother, Joyce Mbele. Mbele leaves behind six children, the youngest aged 2. Cele said a special team had been set up to find the killer or killers. He asked residents to come forward with information. Cele said councillors were an “endangered species”, and if they felt their lives were in danger they needed to alert police. Last Thursday police said that eThekwini Municipality councillor S’bu Maphumulo, 32, had been seated in his car after coming out of a meeting in V-Section uMlazi, when he was shot dead. Maphumulo was driving in his Golf6 when another Golf6 stopped next to his vehicle and opened fire at him. “We need to make sure councillors are safe. A special team has been tasked with finding the culprits,” Cele said. Major-General Jeremy Vearey said the police were following up all leads. Joyce Mbhele said she did not know the motive for the killing, and was still dealing with the shock of it. “We place our trust in God. Luyanda was a God-fearing man who loved church,” she said. Mbhele was also a leader of the United Commuters’ Voice an organisation born out of the necessity for safer trains, stations and better service delivery. The family of Mathenjwa was too distraught to be interviewed when approached for comment. ANC provincial secretary Faiez Jacobs said: “We are deeply shocked at this brutal murder of comrade Luyanda and his cousin, Mzwandile Mathenjwa. “We offer our deepest condolences to the family, comrades and friends of both Luyanda and Mzwandile. “We have established that they were shot and killed after dropping off their cousin in Wallacedene. We call on our members and the community at large to not rest until the killers are brought to book. “Any information must be brought forward to the police so that arrests can be made.” Mayor Patricia de Lille said: “I extend my heartfelt condolences to his family, fellow ANC councillors, colleagues and friends. “I would like to call on anyone who has information about this brutal crime to contact the police if they have any information that will assist in arresting the criminals responsible for the councillor’s murder.” Earlier this month, ANC Kraaifontein branch member Charlton Dipper was stabbed to death at his Scottsdene home. Police spokesperson FC van Wyk said: “A fatal shooting at Ndeleni Street, Wallacedene, Kraaifontein, of two males aged 44 and 40 by unknown suspects is under investigation. “Kraaifontein detectives are working around the clock in an effort to find the perpetrators.” Anyone with information about the incident can anonymously contact Crime Stop at 08600 10111. Alternatively, they can SMS Crime Line on 32211. Cape Times