Cape Town – It has been hailed as a victory for the poor‚ especially rural girls and women, but not everyone regards the abolishing of the payment of VAT on sanitary pads in a similar light. Ronelle Prins, of non-profit organisation Closing the Book Foundation, commenting on Finance Minister Tito Mboweni's announcement in his Medium-Term Budget Policy Statement on Wednesday, told the Cape Times much more needs to be done to alleviate the suffering of females in general than sanitary pads that are now "only R10 cheaper". "What difference is it going to make to the families that can barely afford a loaf of bread? "I'm all for the fact that the government feel they are implementing something that may make a difference, 'in their minds', but how do you tell the girl whose dignity gets stripped when she walks around with toilet paper and cotton wool, because they are more worried about what they are going to eat than the five days of the month they are suffering, that the pads are 'only R10 cheaper'? "Our government is so quick to adapt to other Western countries and what they do, so why can't they adapt the sanitary dispensaries? That R10/R15 less that they are taking back can be used towards crafting a project which they can place all over South Africa. "Because it's not just young girls. It's our homeless women, our street girls, the women amongst us suffering that we don't even know are suffering." Female MPs‚ academics and civil society bodies have long been calling for the abolishment of VAT on sanitary towels‚ with most of them warning that young girls from poor households were missing school classes when they were menstruating because they could not afford sanitary pads. Research has shown that, on average‚ a female spends at least R600 a year on sanitary towels. Female pupils in disadvantaged communities will often miss up to a week of school every month because of a lack of sanitary pads, sacrificing vital educational input for the sake of deserved dignity. Consumers will also no longer pay VAT on white bread flour and cake flour with effect from April 2019. Cape Times