Cape Town - The family of murdered and raped six-year-old Stacey Adams left the Mitchells Plain Magistrates Court looking very distraught by the tragedy that struck them earlier this year. Christopher Brown, 25, the man accused of the rape and murder of Stacey appeared briefly in the Mitchells Plain Magistrates Court on Monday wearing blue jeans and black t-shirt, with a new haircut. Brown is also the ex-boyfriend of Stacey’s mother, Sasha. State prosecutor Juwaya Kleinsmith asked for a postponement for “further investigation and consultation”. The case was postponed to November 19 and Brown will appear via Audio Visual Remand (AVR) system. He remains in custody at Pollsmoor Prison. The court heard Brown will be applying for bail and the State indicated they would be opposing bail. According to National Prosecuting Authority spokesperson Eric Ntabazalila, Brown also has a pending murder, assault GBH and two assault cases and possession of firearm charges against him. After the accused’s brief appearance, the family swiftly left the courtroom and were seen crying and comforting each other outside court. The family declined to comment. Stacey was reported missing on June 23 and a day later her lifeless body was found buried in a shallow grave in Delarey Street, Eastridge in Mitchells Plain. Stacey was found buried near Brown’s Wendy house. Mitchells Plain Crisis Forum member Shireen Jacobs said they understand the hurt of the family. “It is painful for a mother to come to court and see the man who (allegedly) killed your child stand in front of you and there is nothing you can do. All you want at that time is justice for your child,” she said. Jacobs said they are disappointed with the delays in the case. “Such cases are not supposed to drag on so long. It is disappointing. All the family wants is justice for their child that was lost. It is frustrating for one to see the (accused) in front and he walks down those stairs without a care,” Jacobs said.  chevon.booysen@inl.co.za  Cape Times