The Department of Environmental Affairs’ (DEA) Working on Fire (WoF) programme officially launched the provincial fire awareness campaign at the weekend. On Friday, the Fire Awareness Campaign Launch event was arranged by Working on Fire and was hosted at the Hawston Thusong Centre in the Overstrand Region. The fire awareness campaigns are aimed to teach communities how to be #FireSafe and to prevent unwanted veld and forest fires, and to raise awareness of the risk of veld and forest fires and empower those at risk to take responsibility to reduce the risk and impact of fires in their communities. The WOF launched the Western Cape Fire Awareness Campaign, together with the Overberg and Overstrand Municipality and fire brigade services, the South African National Parks, CapeNature, Community Development Workers and the Greater Overberg Fire Protection Association. Speaking at the launch, Western Cape general manager for the WOF programme Moses Manganye said “the value of fire awareness and fire safe preparation around dwellings cannot be over-emphasised”. “For this fire awareness campaign launch, we focus on fire awareness initiatives in schools and communities, which have reached more than 2 million people over the past five years. We have also conducted similar fire awareness initiative in the Overberg and Overstrand area,” Manganye said. Over the next few weeks leading up to the start of the fire season, the WOF firefighters, together with various partners, will conduct fire awareness activities at various schools as well as embark on door-to-door campaigns in the Cape Peninsula, Cape Winelands, West Coast and Overberg regions, the Garden Route and George Community in the Southern Cape, targeting close to 2 000 learners, educators and community members. The WOF has urged communities to be more vigilant during the fire season and not to start unnecessary fires, particularly during dry days. People are also asked to remove unnecessary rubble on their properties which can pose a serious fire risk and houses next to grasslands need to ensure that there are sufficient fire breaks between their properties and these grasslands. People must also ensure that they have the contact details of their local fire authorities at hand should there be a fire emergency. Fire emergencies can be logged by calling 107 form a landline or 021 480 7700 from a cellphone 