The year was 1998. Britney Spears burst onto the scene with her brand of bubblegum pop. Microsoft became the biggest company in the world. And, Viagra was launched. The miracle pill for male impotence was a godsend for men the world over struggling to “stand to attention”. It started a sexual revolution of sorts and the male libido rejoiced. But as men were popping their blue little pills, women woke up from their sleep-induced funk and said: “Hang on, wait a minute. What about us?” Drugmakers rushed to balance the scales and 17 years later the FDA approved flibanserin, affectionately known as Pink Viagra. Branded as Addyi, it was exclusively for the treatment of sexual dysfunction in premenopausal women. But there was one fatal flaw. Soon after Addyi made its debut, developer Sprout Pharmaceuticals was forced to defend that in essence it was a cleverly packaged antidepressant. The non hormonal prescription pill treated women who suffer from hypoactive sexual desire disorder (HSDD). According to medical website Healthline, women who suffer from HSDD tend to have hormonal imbalances such estrogen, testosterone, and progesterone deficiency - none of which were altered by Addyi. It was a massive fail on the manufacturer’s part, but the drug has since been re-launched. It’s also highlighted the fact that not all women with low sexual desire suffer from HSDD. The female libido is a complicated thing, and although drug experts haven’t cracked the code yet, there are over-the-counter supplements available that could come close to increasing that burning desire. Lady Prelox New to the South African market, lady Prelox is a dietary supplement, which Lamelle Research Laboratories call the first evidence-based female sexual function formula. The supplement helps with sexual comfort and pleasure, containing plant-based ingredients with no side effects. The main ingredient Pycnogenol is a botanical extract from the bark of the French maritime pine tree. Known for its antioxidant properties, it expands and supports healthy blood vessels, supports and restores healthy production of nitric oxide which encourages better blood flow and improves overall mood. FemElle Also a dietary supplement, FemElle claims to boost the sex drive and improve sexual pleasure in women. It also promises to induce stronger orgasms. The unique blend of herbal extracts work with a woman’s body to stimulate arousal and improve the physical experience of sex. One of the main active ingredients is Cnidium Monnier - a plant used in traditional Chinese medicine to increase sexual arousal in men and women. But, according to WebMD, not enough research has been done on whether it is safe for general use. Most of the reviews about this product have been less than glowing. It has no official website and details on the manufacturer are scarce, so proceed with caution. ViaHer Pro ViaHer Pro capsules were ideally created to be taken right before engaging in intimacy.  A blend of botanicals - each was chosen with a keen focus on the composition of the female body. In recent years ginger root was found to improve intimate health. It is also known for its revitalizing qualities. Another ingredient is passion fruit. Naturally rich in Piceatannol, it’s considered to be highly important for its revitalising and protective action against the impacts of stress. Another interesting fact is that some of the polyphenols found in passion fruit have been linked to vasodilatation - the dilation of blood vessels, which decreases blood pressure. Erex Erex Arousal Drops For Women is a specially blended herbal formulation that helps improve the female libido. It also helps to heighten sensation and improve sexual desire and vitality. Containing herbs such uBangalala, Panax Ginseng, and uQunsi, they are known to have been used in traditional medicine for thousands of years. 