Groenvlei is a natural lake near Sedgefield in the Garden Route region. Most of the lake falls within the Goukamma Nature Reserve, which is managed by CapeNature, according to spokesperson Marietjie Engelbrecht. Groenvlei represents a naturally rare ecosystem in the province and has genetically distinct populations of two indigenous fish species: the estuarine round herring and Cape silverside, that are only found in this lake. Engelbrecht said these indigenous fish species co-existed with several alien fish species that had established invasive populations in Groenvlei. “Fish started dying on October 6 in small numbers, followed by a bigger fish die-off from October 8 to 10, when substantial numbers of largemouth bass, bluegill sunfish and indigenous fishes died. “CapeNature fish scientist Dean Impson and Dr Kevin Christison, a specialist fish disease scientist of the Department of Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries, visited Groenvlei to assess the extent of the die-off and attempt to understand why this incident is taking place,” Engelbrecht said. On the visit, dead and decaying bass and bluegill were seen floating next to reed beds on the edge of Groenvlei, especially on its western shoreline. There were no fresh dead bass or bluegill, indicating the major fish die-off had passed. Carp and tilapia seem to be unaffected by the die-off. Engelbrecht said these were hardy fish, able to survive poor water. “At this stage, there is not an obvious reason for the fish die-off. According to Impson they are a worldwide phenomenon and are the result of natural and/or man-made factors. “Mortality from natural causes can be caused by oxygen depletion, toxic gases and substances, toxic algal blooms, turnover of the water column, sudden or excessive temperature changes, salinity changes, lightning, diseases and parasites,” she said. Bacterial kills are seldom sudden and there is usually a gradual build-up of fish losses. Death caused by parasites and disease require histological examination by trained biologists or veterinarians. However, man-made factors can also cause fish die-offs - for example, discharging of pesticides, fertilisers and other chemicals into water may act directly on the fish, or indirectly by, for example, resulting in a sudden decrease in available dissolved oxygen. “Water quality measurements by the Garden Route District Municipality and SANParks at the time of the fish die-off indicated poor water quality and elevated water alkalinity in some of the shallow bays on the western shoreline,” Engelbrecht said. The combination of elevated pH and low dissolved oxygen is a known fish stressor. There was also a strong smell of what may have been hydrogen sulphide, a known fish toxicant, which is produced by decaying animal and plant material.” There are indications that the growing numbers of carp may be a participating factor in the strange occurrence, Engelbrecht added. “The increasing numbers of carp in Groenvlei are a major cause of concern for CapeNature. CapeNature approved an ongoing control programme of the carp using nets as well as bow-hunters operating under a permit from CapeNature that will hopefully substantially reduce their numbers in the long term.” To better understand the impact of carp in the vlei, a post-doctoral study will start next year under the leadership of Dr Olaf Weyl of the SA Institute for Aquatic Biodiversity. CapeNature has advised the public not to eat fish from Groenvlei, especially dead fish, until the fish die-off stops and conditions return to normal.