Pink Hijab Day is an international initiative that is intended to remove stereotypes around Muslim women by having them engage in dialogue about breast cancer awareness. The campaign was brought to South Africa by Humairah Jassat, whose aunt was diagnosed with breast cancer but was too shy to speak about it. Dr Justus Apffelstaedt, a renowned breast cancer surgeon in Plattekloof, said during his work in the breast cancer field he had come across very few worthwhile long-term support systems. MJC Women’s Forum chairperson Mualima Khadija Patel-Allie said: “This year we wanted to take the programme into nature, hence the picnic at Westridge Gardens. We chose Mitchells Plain to keep the event in one of our localities, bringing it closer to home.” “An important message to our sisterhood, one we’d like to emphasise, is that if you or a loved one are diagnosed with cancer, there is definitely no shame in it, neither is it a death sentence. “Awareness of the symptoms of breast cancer is, therefore, so important so that we can self-examine and be conscious of the signs. This is one of the main reasons for our campaign,” said Patel-Allie. Although the official Pink Hijab Day is on October 30, the MJC Women’s Forum decided to host the event a week earlier as they have seen an increase in Pink Hijab Day events. The forum is also engaging high schools to encourage teachers to speak to pupils about breast cancer and how to cope as young caregivers. “We encourage principals and teachers to host their own Pink Hijab Day event at their respective schools, take some pictures and/or a video for social media and post it, using the tag #PinkHijabDay. “We also request the principals to dedicate a two-minute talk about breast cancer awareness at the assembly this week,” said Patel-Allie. All women attending are requested to wear pink scarves on the day. Entrance is free and you can take along your own picnic basket. Men are also encouraged to support the campaign by wearing pink ribbons. Cape Times