The Rail Enforcement Unit of 100 officers was launched on Monday in a joint effort by the city, provincial government and the Passenger Rail Agency of South African (Prasa). This comes after a memorandum of agreement was signed between the parties, where each of them committed to jointly fund the R47.9million needed to establish the unit for 12 months. Trains in the city have come under severe attack in recent months following a series of incidents of arson. Commuters have been living in fear of being robbed while travelling. The launch came after Transport Minister Blade Nzimande and Transport MEC Donald Grant hosted a consultative imbizo in Khayelitsha on Saturday. The two had undertaken a site visit and in-loco inspection at the Paarden Eiland depot to view damage to Prasa infrastructure sustained during various arson attacks on Metrorail trains in the province. Transport mayco member Brett Herron said trains were the most efficient and affordable form of public transport. “Here in Cape Town, hundreds of thousands of low-income residents rely on the trains to get to work and school. It is our duty and responsibility to ensure commuters’ safety; and secondly, we must do all we can to protect and stabilise the service,” he said. The formation of the unit demonstrated the commitment and collaborative spirit between the various spheres of government to tackle these issues head-on. “I want to thank our partners for their leadership, support and dedication over the past few months in seeing this pilot project through,” he said. The officers were recruited by the City, and have undergone extensive training over the past few months. Grant said improving security on the rail network was an urgent priority. “The future economic success of this region depends heavily on a stable and sustainable rail network. Having visited the officers while they were training last month, I believe that the work we have put into this pilot project to increase Metrorail’s security contingent is a necessary step towards improving passenger rail functionality and effectiveness. It is also a very important example of intergovernmental co-operation in the interests of society. Improving security will go a long way in restoring commuter faith in the service.” Metrorail regional manager Richard Walker said: “The unit will act as force multiplier and reinforces our call for all law enforcement agencies to fight crime in the rail system together. We now have our own Protection Services, the Rapid Rail Response Unit and the Rail Enforcement Unit working in co-ordination with the SAPS’s Provincial Joint Operations Command Centre.” Shane Festus, 20, the youngest officer in the unit, said he joined after hearing stories about trains being set alight. “You would hear stories of people being robbed almost every day and of the trains that have been set alight, and I think it is important for people to feel safe when they are going to work.”