The City of Cape Town has dropped its fight to have a mega development at Maiden's Cove, which had been opposed by the owners of bungalows in Clifton amid great public concern. They have been engaged in a legal battle with the City over its decision to sell five hectares of prime coastal land between Clifton and Camps Bay for R1.5 billion. The developers had planned to build more than 50 houses‚ a hotel‚ a shopping mall and a 700-bay car park at the much-loved recreational spot for families. In a statement on Friday‚ the city council said it had decided to withdraw its opposition to the application after careful consideration and taking public concerns into account, TimesLive reported. The process followed in selling the land was reportedly deemed to be “procedurally unfair”. “To date‚ the city has opposed the review application‚” said Stuart Diamond‚ the mayoral committee member for assets and facilities management. “However‚ over the past months we have taken note of the concerns raised by residents‚ non-profit organisations and others. These concerns relate to the impact the proposed development could have on Maiden’s Cove and how it could affect those who frequently visit the area. “We have heard their pleas‚ read their letters and opinion pieces and reflected on their arguments.” Diamond said the City withdrew its opposition to the court application after consulting lawyers and had informed the developer about the decision. “We are committed to working together with our residents in devising a vision for one of Cape Town’s most inclusive and valued public spaces‚” he said. The Bungalow Owners Association‚ celebrity divorce lawyer Billy Gundelfinger and businessmen Mark Willcox and Gavin Verejey lodged a review application in the high court in Cape Town in April in a bid to turn back the concrete tide. The development was planned by a shelf company linked to Ethan Dube’s Vunani Capital‚ which was announced as the successful bidder last year. Fellow Vunani director Mark Anderson told TimesLive the city’s decision had taken them by surprise. “We are still digesting it‚ I don’t know what to say at the moment‚” Anderson said. Janey Ball‚ the co-founder of a non-profit organisation opposed to the development‚ Maiden's Cove for All‚ welcomed the city’s decision. “We are delighted and hope that this marks the end of the intended development on the site‚” said Ball.