The around 10 police officers in court and the security search at the entrance to the court building, including scanning people's shoes, bore testimony to the danger at hand. Taxi fleet owner Colin Booysen was furious on Wednesday that he and his two bodyguards were arrested for the fatal shooting of a man during an argument in Belhar in September, News24 reported. "I reserve my right to sue those persons who arrested me without any basis for law," said Booysen through his lawyer, advocate Bruce Hendricks, in his bail application in the Bellville Magistrate's Court. "There is no basis to charge me," said Booysen, brother of Jerome "Donkie" Booysen, who is described by some as a "gang leader". According to Booysen, the only reason he survived the shooting was due to the quick response of his highly trained bodyguards. Calvin Abels and Vuyiswa Macingwana are his co-accused in the murder of Adrian Pietersen in a shootout in Belhar on September 28. In his affidavit, Booysen, who hails from Hanover Park and now lives in Bellville, said being kept behind bars until trial would ruin his business. His fiancée, five children and ailing mother would also suffer. He said he had five taxis, three of which are registered in his name with the Delft/Belhar taxi association, and would lose his business contacts and his R60 000 a month income if he were to remain in custody. The self-employed 51-year-old with a Grade 9 said his incarceration was placing a severe strain on his family. He conceded that he had previous convictions for culpable homicide and assault with grievous bodily harm, but any other cases against him since he was paroled had been withdrawn. These details were read to the court from an affidavit by Hendricks. The court heard that at the time of the shootout on September 28, Booysen had been warned that Pietersen had been with people who were drinking and might be coming after him. The court ran out of time and Magistrate Zakira Mohamed postponed the finalisation of the bail application to October 19. Booysen goes on trial in December for an extortion case.