Cape Town – The Western Cape Education Department will be giving all the necessary support to pupils affected by the devastating fire at Town Two in Khayelitsha at the weekend, especially those starting to write their matric exams on Tuesday. Around 300 dwellings were gutted, leaving more than a thousand people destitute. Education ministry spokesperson Jessica Shelver told the SABC they have received reports of five pupils scheduled to write their matric exams tomorrow. “Our exams directorate has confirmed that arrangements will be made for the learners who lost their ID documents to write their exams. "Principals have also made contact with learners directly and if any learners require additional support, they must contact the principals so that arrangements can be made in the district concerned.” Earlier, Western Cape Social Development MEC Albert Fritz conveyed condolences to the family of Sango Nqeneka, who died in a number of blazes which ravaged informal settlements around Cape Town at the weekend. Emergency services reported fires in Khayelitsha, Kosovo and Kayamandi, the African News Agency reported. “Particularly in Khayelitsha, where over 1 200 individuals have lost their homes, this department has deployed social workers who have provided counselling to those affected by the death of their loved one and the loss of their homes,” said Fritz in a statement. “Additionally, this department will continue to monitor the provision of humanitarian relief to those affected as provided by Sassa or as available through donations.” Fritz further called on the South African Social Security Agency (Sassa) to re-evaluate their disaster management supply chain, stating that it should be noted that in each fire, there have been complaints about the agency’s ability to provide disaster relief. “I call on Sassa to re-evaluate their disaster management supply chain. It is essential that as we go into a new fire season, that Sassa does not abandon the most vulnerable in society.” He also commended the City of Cape Town’s disaster and risk management team, in collaboration with the Department of Human Settlements, for their work in documenting and assisting the affected. “The fire season has begun and I call on all residents to be cautious when using open fires and paraffin. Density population and the number of flammable materials within informal settlements make homes particularly vulnerable to the spread of fires. As communities, our priority must be the prevention of fires,” Fritz added.