Cape Town – The City recently gave the green light to the Hout Bay Eyethu Skatepark and the project will officially break ground by the end of the month. After four gruelling years and tireless fund-raising, the Eyethu Skatepark, a Rotary Hout Bay Initiative supported by Eyethu Volunteers, organisers and the team are excited to get to work on the initiative. The organisations’ co-founder and head design architect, Lawden Holmes, recently received the green light from the City of Cape Town Planning and Building Development Management Department and since then it has been all systems go to try to get the skatepark built by the end of the year. Keith Bull, the Rotary Hout Bay Club president, said they were excited to get to work. The Eyethu Skatepark project started four years when ago when community leader MJ Johnson posted on Facebook the need for a community skatepark in the area. Rotary Hout Bay were at the time looking for a new project to support and heeded the community call for a safe space for skaters in the community to call home. The support from the local and greater community has been staggering.   “The entire team has been working so hard over the last four years and this year has been particularly tough. So when we heard the news that we could start the build, we were thrilled,” Bull said. “We’re also lucky to have Amandla Construction on board to provide all of the ground clearing, levelling, initial ground testing and core construction for free. This is invaluable and proves how committed the entire community is to this project. "MICA Hardware Hout Bay have also generously promised to provide all building material at cost price, a massive value to a project of this size,” Bull said. Eyethu Skatepark project co-ordinator Vicki Scheffel said: “The response we’ve had from the public has been staggering. From our Indiegogo crowdfunding campaign and a golf day, we raised over R270 000. "All of the Rotary Clubs have come to the party and supported this project, with our own Hout Bay Rotary club donating R100 000 to the project. Every person who has assisted in donating money, time and consumables to this project is to thank. It’s really been a team effort, and that’s what a community project should be.” In total, R820 000 has been raised, which includes R350 000 CSR Funding from Peninsula Beverage sourced by Rotary Club Newlands, the Rotary Clubs of Totnes Devon and Cape of Good Hope have pledged R75 000 and R14 000 respectively. Rotary Club Hout Bay Project Lead for Eyethu Skatepark said there was still some fund-raising needed for the mentorship programme but this would not deter them. “While we’re elated that we’ve been given the green light from the City of Cape Town, our work is far from done”, Dutton said. Anyone wanting to get involved in the project, either through resources, donations or time, can contact Peter Dutton on pdutton@cfe.co.za Cape Times