Cape Town – It's going to be a blustery weekend, but don't let that deter you from having a great weekend. Four of the best events to check out this weekend, according to capetown.travel, are (the wind put paid to the Galileo Open Air Cinema's Me before You screening on Friday night. Afrique mon désir – Live at Fugard Theatre Afrique Mon Désir is on at the Fugard this weekend, directed by David Kramer. It features Laurinda Hofmeyr, who is well known for setting poetry to music. Catch this popular world music with its exhilarating rhythms and mesmerising Francophone poetry. Cape Town International Boat Show The annual Cape Town International Boat Show is South Africa’s premier boating and water sports show. This event is warmly referred to as ‘the granddaddy of boat shows on the African continent’ and has been attracting thousands of boat-mad visitors since it was first established. Taittinger Global Champagne Day Cape Town The fabulous Global Champagne Day event will be hosted at the beautiful Twelve Apostles Hotel & Spa from 6pm on Friday. Enjoy bottomless Champagne Taittinger, sumptuous canapes, and live entertainment. Cinderella at Artscape Theatre Opera House The Cinderella fairy tale appeals to all ages. The classical ballet is a special performance dedicated to the outreach and development of a younger and new audience from all communities. Then again, life is all about choice, so perhaps capetownmagazine.com's suggestions tickle your fancy. Over 120 world-class films for only R50 a screening Catch a world-class film for just R50 at the 2018 edition of the well-known annual movie event, the Cape Town International Film Market & Festival. Pop-Up Dinner at Stir Crazy (Friday evening) Pop out for a five-course gourmet pop-up dinner at this cooking school in Hout Bay. Kuils River Challenge (Saturday morning) Choose from four different challenges to tackle and help support a charity for the kids of Kuils River at this golf and obstacle course event. Ipotsoyi Spring Festival (Saturday afternoon until late) Celebrate some of the best in South African music and a great party atmosphere at this annual spring festival. Calling Us Home Fundraiser (Saturday afternoon) See the show that raised the roof and brought audiences to their feet in Joburg last year as Calling Us Home comes to the Artscape. Rolling Stones Music Evening (Friday) Enjoy a night of legendary music at Cafe Roux in Noordhoek as four top Cape Town rock artists pay tribute to the Rolling Stones at this musical spectacular. Stargazing at the V&A Waterfront (Saturday afternoon to evening) Enjoy an evening of viewing and learning more about the vast universe at this unique event hosted at one of the most popular locations in Cape Town, the V&A Waterfront’s Stargazing. Primal Hour at Primal Eatery (Tuesdays to Fridays 6pm to 8pm) Grab an exciting bespoke cocktail for half of the price at New Church Street's Primal Eatery during their Primal Hour.