The reports were expected to be tabled before a full council meeting today - six days before she is set to step down. De Lille remained coy on whether she would retract her resignation depending on whether or not the council laid criminal charges against her. report A decision would be made whether or not to lay criminal charges against De Lille, Mayco member for transport and urban development Brett Herron, suspended transport commissioner Melissa Whitehead and several other officials. De Lille said she had taken issue with the credibility of Bowmans since the inception of the investigation. “I can confirm that my lawyers have now written to Bowmans to seek clarity on this and requested a response by end of business today (yesterday). "Once I receive their response, discuss it with my lawyers and pending the decision of council tomorrow (today) regarding which of the two reports they will adopt, I will then be in the position to announce what my next steps will be.” “Extreme caution should therefore be exercised in relying on the findings, conclusions and recommendations contained in the reports, particularly considering that the reports appear to be in conflict with each other,” she said. De Lille said media reports of her retracting her resignation were fuelled by statements made by her supporter, Rodney Lentit, who had informed her that, if charged, she would have no choice but to stay on. She said one report found her not guilty for not taking a report to council because, in law, the onus would be on the City manager to take reports on executive directors to council. The second report, she said, did not find her guilty on the basis that she allegedly tried to influence former City manager Achmat Ebrahim in the exercise of his duties. De Lille agreed to step down after reaching an agreement with the DA. Questioned on whether the law firm had received De Lille’s letter, spokesperson Alice Andersson said: “Bowmans is not at liberty to comment on any of our clients or the confidential work that we do for them.” Cape Times