Science shows that we are increasingly surrounded by tiny fragments of plastic, known as microplastics. They are not just in the oceans but also on land, in rivers, wetlands, soil and even in the air. It will take a concerted effort from governments, businesses, scientists and each one of us to rein in this pervasive problem. Microplastics are usually defined as plastic items measuring less than 5mm in diameter and include nanoplastics (plastic particles that are not visible to the human eye and may even be beyond scientific detection limits). Microplastics can be divided into primary and secondary plastics. Secondary microplastics are plastic pieces that break down from larger plastic items such as bags or bottles that get broken down over a period of time by the sun or wave action in the ocean. A prolific source of secondary microplastics is synthetic textiles such as fleece and other clothing made from synthetic fibres – acrylic, nylon and polyester are major culprits. These microfibres are released through wear and tear and when you wash your clothes. Another little-understood source of secondary plastics is tyre dust, which is one of the more toxic plastic types. Research has found that at least 220 marine species have been known to ingest microplastics, most often because they are mistaken for food. While some animals can excrete the plastics, a number of them can’t. Once ingested, these small non-nutritious plastic bits fill up the stomachs of marine mammals and seabirds, which can cause death by starvation through damage or obstruction to the gut. A recent study on bottled water sourced in nine different countries found that 93% showed some kind of microplastic contamination. As a result of this study, the World Health Organisation announced a review of the potential risks of plastics in drinking water. There is already some evidence of plastic contamination in drinking water in South Africa. What can you do? · Recycle and dispose of the plastic you use in a responsible way · Read the labels on cosmetics and choose products that are free of microbeads · Stop the problem of microplastics at source by joining neighbourhood clean-ups · Wash your synthetics less frequently, pick shorter, cooler cycles and use a bag to wash your synthetics · Fill up your machine before doing a load – this reduces the friction between clothes, which means fewer fibres are released.     