Mitchells Plain parents can watch with pride as their children participate in the annual schools' drill competition tomorrow. The initiative - in conjunction with Midea Events, the Mitchells Plain police and the Plainsman - started in 2007 and showcases the talents of 19 Mitchells Plain primary and high schools. The competition, for which entry is free, is set to kick off at 8am at the Westridge Oval Sports Grounds in Mitchells Plain and will continue until around 6pm. Spokesperson Abie Isaacs said they look forward to hosting the 15 local schools and four other schools from the Eastern Cape and Vredendal. “The drilling competition started during 2007, through the efforts of Jeremy Vearey as a project, to deter the youth from criminal activities. We needed an initiative that was sustainable and today the competition has grown into more than that, it has become a brand,” Isaacs said. Isaacs said the annual competition was aimed at youth at risk who come from communities where criminal activities are rife. “We have many success stories from pupils who participated in the drill competitions. During our first year we had a student who sold drugs and today he manages his own company. “The initiative speaks to discipline and respect among peers as well as communication. They have to listen to each other to execute those commands,” he said. Isaacs said the drilling initiative, which is funded from their own pockets, was extended to the Eastern Cape during 2012. “The same initiative was taken to the Eastern Cape where we also targeted gang-infested areas. It has shown a lot of success in that area as well,” he said. Isaacs said this year spectators can look forward to a cultural display after the Chinese embassy came onboard for the initiative. He added that the competition once had 25 schools taking part, but this number declined in recent years. “It is very unfortunate that a few of the schools had to withdraw from the competition, but it was very difficult facilitating training and rehearsals in areas where the safety of pupils had to be prioritised,” he said. Isaacs said they look forward to attracting large crowds to the competition this year. “We encourage Mitchells Plain to come out in their numbers in support of these pupils. The event is for the enjoyment of the children and what they want to showcase,” Isaacs said.