Gian-Quen started ice skating at the age of 7 and is fast making a name for herself in the sport. She got her South African colours for the sport earlier this year, and last year she was the only South African figure skater to bring home a gold medal from the Santa Claus Cup in Budapest. “Initially I was going to do ice hockey, but the coach at the club I joined said I had potential and I started figure skating. I like how graceful and elegant it looked and when I step on the ice, all my worries go away.” She said she didn’t expect to be doing well so fast in competitions. “It is very intense. I am on the ice every day from 1 to 2pm, then I have to go to the gym after and I have to do a lot of stretching. I am lucky that my school is very accommodating of my sport and I get to leave earlier, but I must ensure that I catch up on all the work I miss.” She said she was overjoyed to get her South African colours at such a young age. Her wish is for the government to provide more support as the sport can be expensive. “My mom is a single parent and she does some fund-raisers here and there to get the funds. When we travel abroad we have to pay for our flights and accommodation, then there is also the blades, skates and outfits.” Megan Allely has seen Gian-Quen becoming a strong and powerful skater since she started coaching her. Allely said she took Gian-Quen to train in Canada to prepare her for international competitions. “She went to the junior grand prix and she was the youngest at the competition. She got her colours for that. It was her first time competing at the junior level and it was a high-level competition, with a lot of big names.” Allely said people were blown away when a South African won the gold. Gian-Quen’s mother, Letitia, said she was very proud of her daughter and grateful to her family for their support. “I didn’t think she would go to competitions so soon, and I thought we would have more time to prepare. Sometimes she can’t compete because there are no funds.”