Cape Town – An Ocean View mother is upset with the police after a cop crashed his vehicle into her front wall and then allegedly laughed at her. Jacqueline Overmeyer, 52, says she was about to go to bed on Tuesday night when she heard a loud bang and got a fright when she saw the Toyota Hilux against her wall. “I came from church and my daughter Abigail, 18, was studying because she is preparing for her matric exams,” she says. “It was after 10 pm and I was getting ready for bed when we heard the bang and my daughter shouted for me. “We saw the bakkie had hit the wall and part of it fell off. The neighbour’s wall and gate were also damaged.” The mother-of-two says she ran out to ask the cops what happened but they apparently laughed at her. “They couldn’t tell me what happened or why they crashed into my wall. The guy who was driving did not seem hurt and I don’t know if he was drunk or not,” said Overmeyer. “They could not tell us if they were chasing someone, so we really don’t know. But within minutes the whole road was filled with police. “But when there are shootings, they are nowhere to be seen. “They just stood around and spoke in Xhosa and laughed like they were making fun of us.” Overmeyer, who works as an administration clerk at Wynberg Magistrate's Court, says she was forced to stay at home on Wednesday as she feared her home would be targeted by "skelms". “My daughter is supposed to go for her extra classes but couldn’t because she is still traumatised,” she says. “Nobody was hurt but there is a hole in the boundary wall now and it’s an easy target for skelms. The police owe me answers and I want them to pay for the damage. “The station commander was here at the accident and told me he will get back to me but I have not heard a thing.” Police spokesman Captain FC van Wyk says: “This office can confirm an accident (Tuesday) night in Cederberg Road involving a police vehicle. A reckless and negligent driving case was registered for investigation.” Daily Voice