The Khayelitsha man sentenced to three life terms for the rape and murder of Iyapha Yamile and the rape of another child has been refused leave to appeal in the Western Cape High Court. Odwa Nkololo applied for leave to appeal on Tuesday and his application was partly based on arguments relating to the veracity of a child's testimony, News24 reported. The 4-year-old Yamile went missing in Khayelitsha on Easter Sunday last year and, after a massive search, her body was found in a plastic bag in the road near her parents' house. After Nkololo was arrested for her murder, it emerged that he had also been charged with the rape of a 7-year-old child. On August 28, Nkololo was sentenced to two life terms for the rape and murder of Yamile, plus an additional life term for the rape of the 7-year-old girl. He later instructed his attorney, Susanna Kuun, to appeal both the conviction and sentence. In the application, it was submitted that Acting Judge Diane Davis had erred in convicting Nkololo by not adhering to Section 164 (1) of the Criminal Procedure Act, which relates to the testimony of a child witness. The section states that if somebody is not capable of understanding the nature and import of the oath or affirmation, they may give evidence on condition they are admonished by the presiding judge or judicial officer to speak the truth. The attorney also submitted that the court relied on "hearsay" regarding the rape of the 7-year-old girl and disregarded the evidence of the young complainant that he had "merely touched her with his hands". Nkololo claimed that he had nothing to do with Yamile's rape and murder, insisting that he and a friend had gone to buy cigarettes at the time that she went missing. The next morning, he discovered that his blue refuse bag, in which Yamile's body was found, had been stolen. With regard to the sentences, Kuun submitted that Davis "overemphasised the seriousness of the crime and the element of deterrence", and submitted that the sentence should be more lenient. However, the application was refused. Kuun has been instructed to petition the Supreme Court of Appeal for leave to appeal. The case made history when men were asked by authorities if they would volunteer for DNA testing to help police narrow down their search for those who had killed Yamile. During the voluntary DNA sample collections, somebody tipped police off that Nkololo was giving them the slip. They narrowed their focus to him and eventually arrested him.